SHEMOT.
Chapter 20.
Then Elohim spoke all these words, saying, 
I am Hashem Eloheicha, Who brought thee out of Eretz Mitzrayim, out of the bais avadim (house of slaves). 
Thou shalt have no elohim acherim in My presence. 
Thou shalt not make unto thee any pesel, or any temunah of any thing that is in Shomayim above, or that is in ha'aretz beneath, or that is in the mayim under ha'aretz. 
Thou shalt not tishtacheveh to them, nor serve them; for I Hashem Eloheicha am an El kanna, visiting the avon Avot upon the Banim unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate Me; 
But showing chesed unto thousands of them that love Me, and are shomer over My mitzvot. 
Thou shalt not take the Shem Hashem Eloheicha in vain; for Hashem will not hold him guiltless that taketh Shmo in vain. 
Remember Yom HaShabbos, to keep it kodesh. 
Sheshet yamim shalt thou labor, and do all thy work: 
But the Yom HaShevi'i is the Shabbos of Hashem Eloheicha; in it thou shalt not do any melachah, thou, nor thy ben, nor thy bat, thy eved, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy ger that is within thy gates; 
For in sheshet yamim Hashem made Shomayim and Ha'Aretz, the yam, and all that in them is, and rested Yom HaShevi'i; for this reason Hashem blessed Yom HaShabbos, and set it apart as kodesh. 
Honor thy av and thy em; that thy yamim may be long upon ha'adamah which Hashem Eloheicha giveth thee. 
Thou shalt not murder. 14Thou shalt not commit adultery. 15Thou shalt not steal. 16Thou shalt not bear ed sheker against thy neighbor. 
Thou shalt not covet thy neighborʼs bais, thou shalt not covet thy neighborʼs isha, nor his eved, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is thy neighborʼs. 
And kol HaAm saw the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the sound of the shofar, and HaHar smoking; and when HaAm saw it, they drew back, and stood afar off. 
And they said unto Moshe, Thou speak with us, and we will hear; but let not Elohim speak with us, lest we die. 
And Moshe said unto HaAm, Fear not: for HaElohim is come to test you, and that His fear may be upon your faces, that ye sin not. 
And HaAm stood afar off, while Moshe drew near unto the thick cloud where HaElohim was. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Thus thou shalt say unto the Bnei Yisroel, You yourselves have seen that from Shomayim I have spoken with you. 
Ye shall not make beside Me elohei kesef, neither shall ye make for yourselves elohei zahav. 
Mizbe'ach adamah thou shalt make unto Me, and shalt sacrifice thereon thy olot, and thy shelamim, thy tzon, and thine oxen; in all places where I cause My Shem to be remembered, I will come unto thee, and I will bless thee. 
And if thou wilt make Me a Mizbe'ach avanim, thou shalt not build it of cut stone; for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast rendered it polluted. 
Neither shalt thou go up by stairs unto Mine Mizbe'ach, that thy nakedness be not discovered thereon. 
