YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 33.
Moreover the Devar Hashem came unto Yirmeyah the second time, while he was yet imprisoned in the Khatzer of the Guard, saying, 
Thus saith Hashem the Oseh (Maker) thereof,Hashem the Yotzer who formed it to establish it: Hashem Shmo; 
Call unto Me, and I will answer thee, and show thee gedolot (great things) and unsearchable things, which thou knowest not. 
For thus saith Hashem Elohei Yisroel, concerning the batim (houses) of this city, and concerning the batim (houses) of the melachim of Yehudah, which are torn down for defense against siege ramps and against the cherev; 
They come to fight against the Kasdim (Chaldeans), but it is to fill these places with the pegarim (dead bodies) of adam, whom I have slain in Mine anger and in My wrath, and all for whose wickedness I have hid My face from this city. 
Hineni, I will bring it health and marpeh (healing), and I will heal them, and will reveal unto them the abundance of shalom and emes. 
And I will cause the captives of Yehudah and the captives of Yisroel to return, and will rebuild those places, as at the first. 
And I will cleanse them from all their avon (iniquity), whereby they have sinned against Me; and I will pardon all their avonot, whereby they have sinned, and whereby they have committed peysha'im against Me. 
And it shall be to Me a Shem Sasson, a Tehillah and a Teferet before kol HaGoyim of Ha'Aretz, which shall hear all the tovah that I do unto them; and they shall fear and tremble for all the tovah and for all the shalom that I procure unto it. 
Thus saith Hashem; Again there shall be heard in this makom, which ye say shall be desolate without adam and without behemah, even in the towns of Yehudah, and in the streets of Yerushalayim, that are desolate, without adam, and without inhabitant, and without behemah, 
The kol (sound, voice) of sasson, and the voice of simchah, the voice of the Choson, and the voice of the Kallah, the voice of them that shall say, Hodu Hashem Tzva'os; for Hashem is tov; for His chesed endureth l'olam; and of them that shall bring the todah (thank offerings, sacrifice of praise) into the Beis Hashem. For I will cause the captives of the land to return, as at the first, saith Hashem. 
Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os; Again in this makom, which is desolate without adam and without behemah, and in all the towns thereof, shall be a naveh (dwelling) of ro'im (shepherds) resting their tzon. 
In the towns of the hill country, in the towns of the Shephelah, and in the towns of the Negev, and in Eretz Binyamin, and in the places around Yerushalayim, and in the towns of Yehudah, shall the tzon pass again under the hands of him that counteth them, saith Hashem. 
Hinei, the days are coming, saith Hashem, that I will perform that davar hatov which I have promised unto Bais Yisroel and unto Bais Yehudah. 
In those days, and at that time, will I cause the Tzemach Tzedakah to sprout up unto Dovid; He shall execute mishpat and tzedakah in ha'aretz. 
In those days shall Yehudah be saved, and Yerushalayim shall dwell securely; and this is what she shall be called, Hashem Tzidkeinu. 
For thus saith Hashem; Dovid shall never lack an ish to sit upon Kisse Bais Yisroel; 
Neither shall the kohanim the Levi'im lack an ish before Me to offer olah, and to burn minchah, and to do zevakh continually. 
And the Devar Hashem came unto Yirmeyah, saying: 
Thus saith Hashem: If ye can break My Brit HaYom, and My Brit HaLailah, that there should not be yomam v'lailah (day and night) in their appointed times; 
Then may also My Brit (covenant) be broken with Dovid Avdi, that he should not have Ben to reign upon his kisse; and with the Levi'im the kohanim, My mesharetim (ministers, servants). 
As the Tzeva HaShomayim cannot be numbered, neither the chol (sand) of the yam (sea) measured, so will I multiply the zera Dovid Avdi, and the Levi'im that minister unto Me. 
Moreover the Devar Hashem came to Yirmeyah, saying, 
Considerest thou not what this people have spoken, saying, The two mishpekhot which Hashem hath chosen, He hath even cast them off? Thus they have despised My people, that they should be no more a nation before them. 
Thus saith Hashem; If My Brit be not with yomam valailah, and if I have not appointed the chukkot of Shomayim vaAretz; 
Then will I cast away the zera Ya'akov and Dovid Avdi, so that I will not take any of his zera to be moshelim (rulers) over the zera Avraham, Yischak, and Ya'akov; for I will cause their captives to return, and have mercy on them. 
