YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 7.
The Devar that came to Yirmeyah from Hashem, saying, 
Stand at the Sha'ar Beis Hashem, and preach there this word, and say, Hear the Devar Hashem, all ye of Yehudah, that enter in at these She'arim (Gates) l'hishta'chavot (to worship, to prostrate before)Hashem. 
Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os, Elohei Yisroel, Amend your ways and your deeds, and I will cause you to dwell in makom hazeh (this place). 
Trust ye not in divrei hasheker (lying words, words of falsehood), saying, This is the Heikhal Hashem, the Heikhal Hashem, the Heikhal Hashem. 
For if ye throughly amend your ways and your deeds; if ye throughly dispense mishpat between an ish and his re'a (neighbor); 
If ye oppress not the ger, the yatom, and the almanah, and shed not dahm naki (innocent blood) in this place, neither walk after elohim acherim to your hurt; 
Then will I cause you to dwell in this place, in HaAretz that I gave to Avoteichem, l'min olam v'ad olam (from forever to forever). 
Hinei, ye trust in divrei sheker (lying words), that are worthless. 
Will ye steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear l'sheker (falsely), and burn ketoret unto Ba'al, and walk after elohim acherim whom ye know not; 
And come and stand before Me in HaBeis Hazeh, which is called by Shmi, and say, We are delivered l'ma'an (in order to) do all these to'evot (abominations)? 
Is HaBeis Hazeh, which is called by Shmi, become a me'arah paritzim (a cave, a den of robbers, criminals) in your eyes? Hinei, even I have been watching, saith Hashem. 
But go ye now unto My Makom (Place) which was in Shiloh, where I made dwell Shmi barishonah (at the first), and see what I did to it because of the ra'at Ami Yisroel (the wickedness of My people Israel). 
And now, because ye have done all these ma'asim, saith Hashem, and I spoke unto you, rising up early and speaking, but ye paid not heed; and I called you, but ye answered not; 
Therefore will I do unto this Beis, which is called by Shmi, wherein ye trust, and unto the place which I gave to you and to Avoteichem, as I have done to Shiloh. 
And I will cast you out of My sight, as I have cast out all your achim, even the whole zera Ephrayim. 
Therefore pray not thou on behalf of HaAm Hazeh, neither lift up plea nor tefillah for them, neither make intercession to Me; for I will not hear thee. 
Seest thou not what they do in the towns of Yehudah and in the chutzot (streets of) Yerushalayim? 
The banim gather wood, and the avot kindle the eish, and the nashim knead their batzek (dough), to make cakes to the Malkat HaShomayim (Queen of Heaven), and to pour out nesakhim (drink offerings) unto elohim acherim, that they may provoke Me to anger. 
Do they provoke Me to anger? saith Hashem; are they not provoking themselves, even to boshet (shame) on their own faces? 
Therefore thus saith Adonoi Hashem; Hinei, Mine anger and My fury shall be poured out upon Hamakom Hazeh (this place), upon haadam, and upon behemah, and upon the etz hasadeh, and upon the pri ha'adamah; and it shall burn, and shall not be quenched. 
Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os, Elohei Yisroel; Add your olot unto your zevakhim, and eat basar. 
For I spoke not unto Avoteichem, nor commanded them in the day that I brought them out of Eretz Mitzrayim, concerning olah or zevach; 
But this thing I commanded them, saying, Obey My voice, and I will be for you Elohim (your G-d), and ye shall be My people; and walk ye in kol HaDerech that I have commanded you, l'ma'an (in order that) it may go well with you. 
But they paid heed not, nor inclined their ear, but walked in the inclinations of the stubbornness of their lev harah (evil heart), and went backward, and not forward. 
Since the day that Avoteichem came forth out of Eretz Mitzrayim unto this day I have even sent unto you all My servants the Nevi'im, daily rising up early and sending them; 
Yet they paid heed not unto Me, nor inclined their ear, but stiffened stubbornly their neck; they did more evil than their Avot. 
Therefore thou shalt speak all these devarim unto them; but they will not pay heed to thee; thou shalt also call unto them; but they will not answer thee. 
But thou shalt say unto them: This is a Goy (Nation) that obeyeth not the voice of Hashem Elohav, nor respondeth to musar; haemunah (the faith) is lost, and is cut off from their mouth. 
Cut off thine hair, O Yerushalayim, and throw it away, and take up a kinah (lamentation) on barren heights; for Hashem hath rejected and abandoned the dor evrato (the generation of His wrath). 
For the Bnei Yehudah have done rah in My sight, saith Hashem; they have set their shikkutzim (abominations) in the Beis which is called by Shmi, to make it tameh. 
And they have built the high places of Tophet, which is in the Gey Ben Hinnom, to burn their banim and their banot in the eish; which I commanded them not, neither entered it into My mind. 
Therefore, hinei, the yamim are coming, saith Hashem, that it shall no more be called Tophet, nor the Gey Ben Hinnom, but the Gey Haharegah (Valley of Slaughter); for they shall bury in Tophet, till there be no room. 
And the nivlat HaAm Hazeh (carcass of this people) shall be food for the oph HaShomayim, and for the behemat ha'aretz; and none shall frighten them away. 
Then will I cause to cease from the towns of Yehudah, and from the chutzot Yerushalayim, the sound of joy, and the sound of simchah, the sound of the Choson (Bridegroom) and the sound of the Kallah (Bride); for HaAretz shall be desolate. 
