LUKAS.
Chapter 17.
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to his talmidim, It is impossible for the nisayon (temptation) to sin not to come, but oy through whom it comes. 
It is better for him if a millstone is hung around his neck and he had been thrown into the sea than that he should cause a michshol for these little ones. 
Pay attention to yourselves. If your ach sins and you rebuke him, and if he makes teshuva, grant him selicha (forgiveness). 
And if shevah pe'amim during the yom he sins against you and shevah pe'amim he turns around to you saying, I make teshuva, you will grant him selicha. 
And the Shlichim said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Adoneinu, increase our emunah. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu said, If you have emunah like a mustard seed, you would have said to this mulberry etz, be uprooted and be planted in the sea, and it would have given you mishma'at. 
But who among you, having an eved plowing or tending kevesim, when the eved comes in from the sadeh, will say to him, Here, come ofen ort (immediately) and recline at tish. 
Rather, would he not say, Prepare something that I may have okhel; gird up your tunic and serve me until I am satisfied, and, after that, you may have okhel? 
There is no obligatory effusive todah, when the eved only did his chiyuv (duty). 
So also you, when you do all these things which are given you as mitzvot, say, We are useless avadim, we only did our chiyuv. 
And it came about while Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach goes to Yerushalayim, he was traveling through the middle of Shomron and the Galil. 
And entering into a certain shtetl, some anashim metzoraim (leprous men) met Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, and there were ten of them. Keeping their distance, 
They shouted, saying, Yehoshua, Rabbi, chaneinu! 
And having seen this, he said to them, Go and show yourselves to the kohanim. And it came about while they were going away that they were made metoharim (clean). 
And one of them, having seen that he had received refuah, returned with a kol gadol (loud voice), saying Baruch Hashem! 
And he fell on his face at the feet of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, giving hodayah (thanksgiving). And he was a Shomroni (Samaritan). 
And in reply Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said, Were there not ten who were made metoharim? Now the tishah (nine), where are they? 
Was none of them found to turn around and return and give kavod (glory) to Hashem except this nokhri (foreigner)? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Get up and go. Your emunah (faith) has delivered you. 
Now having been asked by the Perushim, Ad mosai? (How much longer?) When comes the Malchut Hashem? Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach replied, The Malchut Hashem is not coming with things observable, 
nor will they say, Hinei, here it is, or There it is, for hinei, the Malchut Hashem is within you. 
And he said to the talmidim, Yamim are coming when you will long to see one of the yamim of the Bar Enosh. And you will not see it. 
They will say to you, Hinei, there it is! Or, hinei, here it is! Do not go out after them nor pursue them. 
For as the lightning flashing out of one part under Shomayim lights up the other part under Shomayim, thus will be the Bar Enosh in his Yom. 
But brishonah it is necessary for him to suffer many things and to be rejected by HaDor HaZeh. 
And just as it was in the yamim of Noach, thus will it be also in the yamim of the Bar Enosh. 
They were eating, drinking, marrying, and being given in marriage, until the Yom when Noach entered into the Tevah (Ark) and HaMabbul (the Flood) came and destroyed everything. 
Likewise, just as it was in the yamim of Lot: they were eating, drinking, buying, selling, planting, and building. 
But on the Yom when Lot went out from S'dom, from Shomayim it rained down eish and gofrit and destroyed everything. 
So it will be on the Yom when the Bar Enosh has his hisgalus (revelation). 
On that yom let not anyone on the housetop come back down inside for any of his property in the bais, and the one in a sadeh (field) likewise let him not turn back for things left behind. 
Remember eshet Lot (Lotʼs wife). 
Whoever seeks to preserve his nefesh will lose it; but whoever loses it, will preserve it. 
I say to you, in lailah hazeh there will be two in one bed: one will be taken; and the other will be left. 
There will be shtayim (two) grinding at the same place: one will be taken, but the other will be left. 
Shtayim will be in the sadeh (field); one will be taken and the other left. 
And in reply they say to him, Where, Adoneinu? But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Where the NEVELAH is, there also the nesharim (vultures, eagles popularly) will be gathered together. 
