BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 10.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Make thee two khatzotzerot (trumpets) of silver; of a whole piece shalt thou make them; that thou mayest use them for the calling of the Edah, and for the setting out of the machanot. 
And when they shall sound them, Kol HaEdah shall assemble themselves to thee at the entrance of the Ohel Mo'ed. 
And if they sound but with one, then the Nasi'im, which are heads of Yisroelʼs thousands, shall gather themselves unto thee. 
When ye sound a teruah, then the machanot that camp on the east shall go forward. 
When ye sound a teruah the second time, then the machanot that camp on the south shall set out; they shall sound a teruah for their settings out. 
But when the Kahal is to be gathered together, ye shall sound it, but ye shall not sound a teruah. 
And the Bnei Aharon, the kohanim, shall sound the khatzotzerot; and they shall be to you for a chukkat olam throughout your dorot. 
And if ye go into milchamah (battle) in your land against the enemy that oppresseth you, then ye shall sound a blast on the khatzotzerot; and ye shall be remembered before Hashem Eloheichem, and ye shall be saved from your enemies. 
Also in the day of your simcha, and in your moadim, and in the Rosh-Chodesh, ye shall sound a blast on the khatzotzerot over your olot, and over the zevakhim of your shelamim; that they may be to you for a memorial reminder before Eloheichem: I am Hashem Eloheichem. 
And it came to pass on the twentieth day of the second month, in the second year, that the Anan was lifted up from off the Mishkan HaEdut. 
And the Bnei Yisroel set out in their travels from the Midbar Sinai; and the Anan rested in the Midbar Paran. 
And they first set out according to the mouth of Hashem by the hand of Moshe. 
First in place went the degel of the machaneh of the Bnei Yehudah according to their tzivos; and over his division was Nachshon ben Amminadav. 
And over the division of the tribe of the Bnei Yissakhar was Netanel ben Tzuar. 
And over the division of the tribe of the Bnei Zevulun was Eliav ben Chelon. 
And the Mishkan was taken down; and the Bnei Gershon and the Bnei Merari set out, bearing the Mishkan. 
And the degel of the machaneh of Reuven set out according to their tzivos (armies); and over his division was Elitzur ben Shede'ur. 
And over the division of the tribe of the Bnei Shim'on was Shelumiel ben Tzurishaddai. 
And over the division of the tribe of the Bnei Gad was Elyasaph ben De'uel. 
And the descendants of Kehat set out, bearing the Mikdash; and they would erect the Mishkan before their arrival. 
And the degel of the machaneh of the Bnei Ephrayim set out according to their tzivos (armies); and over his division was Elishama ben Ammihud. 
And over the division of the tribe of the Bnei Menasheh was Gamli'el ben Pedahtzur. 
And over the division of the tribe of the Bnei Binyamin was Avidan ben Gideoni. 
And the degel of the machaneh of the Bnei Dan set out, which formed the rear guard of all the machanot throughout their tzivos; and over his division was Achi'ezer ben Ammishaddai. 
And over the division of the tribe of the Bnei Asher was Pagiel ben Okhran. 
And over the division of the tribe of the Bnei Naphtali was Achira ben Enan. 
Thus was the order of march of the Bnei Yisroel according to their tzivos (armies), when they set out. 
And Moshe said unto Chovav ben Reuel the Midyani, Mosheʼs khoten (father-in-law), We are traveling unto the place of which Hashem said, I will give it you: Come thou with us, and we will do thee good; for Hashem hath promised tov concerning Yisroel. 
And he said unto him, I will not go; but I will depart to mine own land, and to my moledet. 
And he said, Leave us not, please; forasmuch as thou hast da'as how we are to encamp in the midbar, and thou mayest be to us as eyes. 
And it shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be, that what tov Hashem shall do unto us, the same will we share with thee. 
And they departed from the Mountain of Hashem three daysʼ journey; the Aron Brit Hashem went before them in the three daysʼ derech, to search out a menuchah for them. 
And the Anan of Hashem was upon them by day, when they set out from the machaneh. 
And it came to pass, when the Aron set out, that Moshe said, Rise up, Hashem, and let Thine enemies be scattered; and let them that hate Thee flee before Thee. 
And when it rested, he said, Return, Hashem, unto the countless thousands of Yisroel. 
