TEHILLIM.
Chapter 40.
(For the one directing, Of Dovid. Mizmor) 
I waited patiently for Hashem; and He inclined unto me, and heard my cry. 
Hashem brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings. 
And He hath put a shir chadash in my mouth, even tehillah (hymn of praise) unto Eloheinu; many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in Hashem. 
Ashrei is that man that maketh Hashem his trust, and looketh not to the proud ones, nor such as turn aside to lies (false g-ds). 
Many, O Hashem Elohai, are Thy wonderful works which Thou hast done, and Thy thoughts which are to us-ward; they cannot be recounted unto Thee; if I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. 
Zevach and minchah Thou didst not desire; mine ears hast Thou pierced; olah (burnt offering) and chata'ah (sin offering) hast Thou not required. 
Then said I, Hinei, I come; in the megillat sefer it is written of me, 
I delight to do Thy will, O Elohai; yea, Thy torah is within my heart. 
I have preached tzedek in the kahal rav (great congregation); hinei, I have not restrained my lips, O Hashem, Thou knowest. 
I have not hid thy tzedek within my lev; I have declared Thy emunah (faithfulness) and Thy teshuah (salvation); I have not concealed Thy chesed and Thy emes from the kahal rav. 
Withhold not Thou thy rachamim from me, O Hashem; let Thy chesed and Thy emes continually preserve me. 
For innumerable evils have compassed me about; mine avonot (iniquities) have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up; they are more than the hairs of mine head; therefore my lev faileth me. 
Be pleased, O Hashem, to deliver me; O Hashem, make haste to help me. 
Let them be ashamed and mutually confounded that seek after my nefesh to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil. 
Let them be appalled because of their boshet (shame) that say unto me, Aha, aha. 
Let all those that seek Thee rejoice and be glad in Thee; let such as love Thy teshuah say continually: Hashem be magnified! 
But I am poor and needy; yet Adonoi thinketh upon me; Thou art my ezer and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O Elohai. 
