GEVUROT MEYRUACH HAKODESH.
Chapter 21.
And when it came about that we set sail, having parted from them, having run a straight course, we came to Cos. And on the next day we got to Rhodes, and from there to Patara. 
And having found an oniyah crossing over to Phoenicia, we went on board and set sail. 
And having come within sight of Cyprus, and leaving Cyprus behind on our left, we were sailing to Syria and we arrived in Tzor, for there the oniyah was unloading its cargo. 
And after having searched for Moshiachʼs talmidim there, we stayed in Tzor shivah yamim. And Moshiachʼs talmidim were telling Rav Sha'ul by the Ruach Hakodesh not to make any aliyah (ascent) to Yerushalayim. 
But when our yamim there were ended, we departed and everyone, including nashim and yeladim, were accompanying us as far as the outskirts of the city; and falling down on the beach, we all were davening. 
And having bid them Shalom, we embarked in the oniyah, and they returned to their own batim. 
And when we had completed the voyage from Tzor, we arrived in Ptolemais, and, having given a Shalom greeting to the Achim b'Moshiach there, we stayed yom echad with them. 
And on the next day, having left, we came to Caesarea; and entered the bais of Philippos, the maggid of the Besuras HaGeulah who was one of HaShivah. And we stayed with him. 
And Philippos was the abba of arbah banot, betulot, who were gifted in giving a dvar nevuah. 
And remaining there many yamim, a certain one came down from Yehudah, a navi, Agav by name. 
And when he came to us, he took Rav Sha'ulʼs gartel and, having bound his own feet and hands with it, Agav said, So says the Ruach Hakodesh: this is the way the Yehudim in Yerushalayim will bind the man who owns this gartel, and they will hand him over to the Goyim. 
And when we heard these things, we were begging Rav Sha'ul, both we and the locals, not to make any aliyah (ascent) to Yerushalayim. 
Then Rav Sha'ul answered, What are you doing weeping and breaking my lev (heart)? For I am prepared not only to be bound but to die al kiddush ha-Shem in Yerushalayim, for haShem of the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua. 
And not persuading him, we remained silent, having said, Let the ratzon Hashem be done. 
And after these yamim, having made preparations, we were making an aliyah to Yerushalayim. 
And also some of Moshiachʼs talmidim from Caesarea traveled with us, bringing us for hachnosas orchim to the bais of the Cyprian Mnason, one of Moshiachʼs talmidim of long standing. 
And when we arrived in Yerushalayim, the Achim b'Moshiach there gave us a kabbalat panim welcome with lev same'ach. 
And on the following day Rav Sha'ul was going in with us to Ya'akov, and all the Ziknei HaKehillah came. 
And having given them a Shalom greeting, Rav Sha'ul was explaining one by one the things Hashem did through his avodas kodesh as Moshiachʼs Shliach to the Umot ha-Olam. 
And the ones who heard were saying, Baruch Hashem! And they said to him, You see, Ach b'Moshiach, how many thousands there are among the Yehudim who have emunah and they all have kanous (zealousness), are shomer mitzvot for the Torah. 
And these Orthodox Jewish ma'aminim hameshichiyim have heard a rumor informing them about you, that you teach the Yehudim living among the Goyim in the Golus to be shmad and to commit apostasy from Moshe, telling them to abandon bris milah for Bnei Yisroel and not to be shomer regarding the darkhei haTorah(ways of the Torah). 
What then is to be done? Certainly these Orthodox Jewish ma'aminim hameshichiyim will get word that you have come. 
This, therefore, do what we tell you. There are with us arba'ah anashim who are under a neder Nezirim. 
Go! Take these for hitkaddeshut (purification) and purify yourself with them and pay expenses for them, that they may cut their hair; then all shall have da'as that there is no emes to the rumor; then it shall be clear that you yourself are in agreement and frum regarding the darkhei haTorah and that you are charedi and shomer mitzvot, in the ranks of those who practice Orthodox Judaism. 
And concerning the Goyim coming to emunah, we have sent an iggeret with our decision that they avoid what is offered to elilim and dahm and what is strangled and zenut. 
Then Rav Sha'ul took the anashim on the following day, and he went with them for tohorah (purification) and was entering the Beis Hamikdash, giving notice of the completion of the yamim of the tohorah until was offered for each one of them the korban. 
Now when the shivat yamim were about to be completed, unbelieving Yehudim from the Province of Asia Ephesus, having seen Rav Sha'ul in the Beis Hamikdash, were stirring up all the multitude, and they laid their hands on him, 
Crying out, Anashim, Bnei Yisroel, help us! This one is the ish who is giving shiurim to everyone everywhere keneged (against, in opposition to) HaAm and the Torah of Moshe Rabbenu and this Makom HaKadosh, and in addition also he brought Yevanim into the Beis Hamikdash and has defiled Makom HaKadosh HaZeh. 
— For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with Rav Sha'ul and they had jumped to the conclusion and made the unwarranted assumption that Rav Sha'ul had brought Trophimus past the Soreg in the Beis Hamikdash. 
— And the whole city was aroused and the people were rushing together, and they seized Rav Sha'ul, and they were dragging him outside the Beit Hamikdash; and immediately the delatot were shut. 
And while they were trying to kill him, a report went up to a tribune of the Roman cohort that all Yerushalayim was in an oifshtand (uprising) uproar. 
At once he took his chaiyalim and centurions and ran down to them, and when the rioters saw the Roman tribune and the chaiyalim, they stopped beating Rav Sha'ul. 
Then the Roman tribune came near and took hold of Rav Sha'ul and ordered him to be bound with two sharsherot (chains), and the tribune was inquiring who he might be and what he had done. 
Some in the crowd were shouting one thing, some another, and the tribune was not able to have da'as of anything definite because of the noise, so he ordered him to be brought into the barracks. 
And when Rav Sha'ul was on the steps, it came about that he was carried by the chaiyalim, because of the violence of the multitude, 
For the crowd kept following and shouting, Away with him! 
And just when he was about to be brought into the barracks, Rav Sha'ul says to the Roman tribune, Is it permissible for me to say something to you? And the tribune said, Ellinisti Ginoskeis? (Do you know Greek?) 
Then you are not the Egyptian who recently stirred up an intifada and led out four thousand assassins into the wilderness? 
And Rav Sha'ul said, I gufa (myself) am an ish Yehudi from Tarsus of Cilicia, a citizen of no insignificant city. And I ask you to allow me to speak to the people. 
And when the tribune had given permission, Rav Sha'ul stood on the steps and motioned with his hand to the people. And a great silence fell upon the crowd. Then Rav Sha'ul addressed the multitude in the language of the Hebrews. 
