DEVARIM.
Chapter 2.
Then we turned, and took our journey into the wilderness by the way of the Yam Suf, as Hashem spoke unto me; and we circled Mt Se'ir yamim rabbim (many days). 
And Hashem spoke unto me, saying, 
Ye have circled hahar hazeh (this mountain) long enough; turn you northward. 
And command thou the people, saying, Ye are to pass through the territory of your brethren the Bnei Esav, which dwell in Se'ir; and they shall be afraid of you; be shomer me'od of yourselves therefore: 
Meddle not with them; for I will not give you of their land, no, not so much as a regel (foot) breadth; because I have given Mt Se'ir unto Esav for a yerushah (possession, inheritance). 
Ye shall get by trade okhel (food) of them for kesef, that ye may eat; and ye shall also buy mayim of them for kesef, that ye may drink. 
For Hashem Eloheicha hath bestowed a brocha on thee in all the works of thy hand; He knoweth thy walking through this midbar hagadol (great wilderness); these arba'im shanim Hashem Eloheicha hath been with thee; thou hast lacked nothing. 
And when we went on past our brethren the Bnei Esav, who dwell in Se'ir, through the road of the Aravah from Eilat, and from Etzyon-Gever, we turned and passed by on the road through the midbar of Moav. 
And Hashem said unto me, Harass not the Moavim, neither provoke them to milchamah for I will not give thee of their land for a yerushah; because I have given Ar unto the Bnei Lot for a yerushah. 
The Emim dwelt therein in times past, a people great, many, and tall, as the Anakim; 
Which also were accounted Repha'im, as the Anakim; but the Moavim called them Emim. 
The Chorim also dwelt in Se'ir beforetime; but the Bnei Esav succeeded them, when they had destroyed them from before them, and dwelt in their place; as Yisroel did unto the eretz of his yerushah Hashem gave unto them. 
Now rise up, and get you over the Wadi Zered. And we went over the Wadi Zered. 
And the time in which we came from Kadesh-Barnea, until we were come over the Wadi Zered, was 38 shanim; until all the generation of the anshei hamilchamah had been consumed from the machaneh, as Hashem had sworn unto them. 
For indeed the yad Hashem was against them, to destroy them from among the machaneh, until they were consumed. 
So it came to pass, when kol anshei hamilchamah were consumed and dead from among HaAm (the People), 
That Hashem spoke unto me, saying, 
Thou art to pass over the border of Moav at Ar today; 
And when thou comest opposite the Bnei Ammon, distress them not, nor meddle with them; for I will not give thee of the Eretz Bnei Ammon any yerushah; because I have given it unto the Bnei Lot for a yerushah. 
(That also was accounted a land of Repha'im; Repha'im dwelt therein in old time; and the Ammonim call them Zamzummim; 
A people great, and many, and tall, as the Anakim; but Hashem destroyed them before them; and they dispossessed them, and dwelt in their place: 
As He did to the Bnei Esav, which dwelt in Se'ir, when He destroyed the Chori from before them; and they succeeded them, dwelling in their place even to this day; 
And the Avim which dwelt in villages, even unto Azah, the Caphtorim, which came forth out of Caphtor, destroyed them, and dwelt in their place.) 
Rise ye up, take your journey, and pass over the Wadi Arnon: see, I have given into thine hand the Emori, Sichon Melech Cheshbon, and his land: begin to possess it, and contend with him in milchamah (battle, war). 
Hayom hazeh will I begin to put the pachad (dread) of thee and the fear of thee upon the ammim (peoples) that are under Kol HaShomayim, who shall hear report of thee, and shall tremble, and be in anguish because of thee. 
And I sent malachim out of the midbar Kedemot unto Sichon Melech Cheshbon with divrei shalom, saying, 
Let me pass through thy land on the derech; I will go along on the derech; I will neither turn unto the yamin nor to the semol (left). 
Thou shalt sell me okhel for kesef, that I may eat; and give me mayim for kesef, that I may drink; only I will pass through on foot; 
(As the Bnei Esav which dwell in Se'ir, and the Moavim which dwell in Ar, did unto me;) until I shall pass over Yarden into the land which Hashem Eloheinu giveth us. 
But Sichon Melech Cheshbon would not let us pass by him; for Hashem Eloheicha hardened and made stubborn his ruach, and made his lev obstinate, that He might deliver him into thy hand, as indeed hayom hazeh. 
And Hashem said unto me, See, I have begun to give Sichon and his land before thee; begin the occupation, that thou mayest take possession to inherit his land. 
Then Sichon came out against us, he and all his people, to make milchamah (battle, war) at Yahatz. 
And Hashem Eloheinu delivered him before us; and we struck him, and his banim, and all his people. 
And we took all his towns at that time, and in cherem utterly destroyed them, and of the nashim, and the little ones, of every town, we left no remnant; 
Only the behemah we took for booty unto ourselves, and the plunder of the towns which we took. 
From Aro'er, which is on the edge of Wadi Arnon, and from the town that is by the wadi, even unto Gil'ad, there was not one town too strong for us; Hashem Eloheinu delivered all unto us: 
Only unto the Eretz Bnei Ammon thou camest not, nor unto any place of the Wadi Yabbok, nor unto the towns in the hills, in accordance with the command of Hashem Eloheinu. 
