Amos.
Chapter 1.
The words of Amos, who was among the shepherds of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Yisroel in the yamim of Uziyah Melech Yehudah, and in the yamim of Yarov'am ben Yoash Melech Yisroel, two years before the earthquake. 
And he said: Hashem roars from Tziyon, and utters His voice from Yerushalayim; and the pastures of the ro'im (shepherds) mourn, and the summit of Mt Carmel withers. 
Thus saith Hashem: For shloshah peysha'im of Damascus, even for arba'ah, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have threshed Gil'ad with threshing sledges of barzel (iron); 
But I will send an eish onto Bais Chazael, which shall devour the fortresses of Ben-Hadad. 
I will break down also the gate bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitant from Bik'at-Aven, and him that holdeth the shevet (sceptre) from Bais-Eden; and the people of Aram shall go into golus unto Kir, saith Hashem. 
Thus saith Hashem: For shloshah peysha'im of Azah (Gaza), even for arba'ah, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they carried away captive the golus shleimah (entire exiled population), to deliver them up to Edom; 
But I will send an eish on the chomah (wall) of Azah (Gaza), which shall devour the fortresses thereof; 
And I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod, and him that holdeth the shevet (sceptre) from Ashkelon, and I will turn Mine hand against Ekron; and the she'erit Pelishtim shall perish, saith Adonoi Hashem. 
Thus saith Hashem: For shloshah peysha'im of Tzor, even for arba'ah, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they delivered up the golus shleimah to Edom, and remembered not the brit achim; 
But I will send an eish on the chomah (wall) of Tzor, which shall devour the fortresses thereof. 
Thus saith Hashem: For shloshah peysha'im of Edom, even for arba'ah, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because he did pursue his brother with the cherev, and did cast off all rachamim, and his anger did rage perpetually, and he kept his wrath netzach; 
But I will send an eish upon Teman, which shall devour the fortresses of Botzrah. 
Thus saith Hashem: For shloshah peysha'im of the Bnei Ammon, even for arba'ah, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have ripped open the women with child of Gil'ad, that they might enlarge their border; 
But I will kindle an eish in the chomah (wall) of Rabbah, and it shall devour the fortresses thereof, with war cries in the yom milchamah, with a tempest in the yom sufah (day of the storm); 
And their melech shall go into golus, he and his sarim (princes) together, saith Hashem. 
