TEHILLIM.
Chapter 94.
Hashem G-d, to whom vengeance belongeth; O G-d, to whom vengeance belongeth, show Thyself. 
Rise up, Thou Shofet HaAretz; render gemul (recompense, desert) to the ge'im (proud ones). 
Ad mosai, Hashem, shall the resha'im, how long shall the resha'im triumph? 
How long shall they utter and speak malicious lies? And all the po'alei aven (workers of iniquity) glorify themselves? 
They crush Thy people, Hashem, and afflict Thine nachalah. 
They slay the almanah and the ger, and murder the yetomim (fatherless, orphans). 
Yet they say, Hashem shall not see, neither shall the Elohei Ya'akov regard it. 
Understand, ye brutish among the people; and ye kesilim (fools), when will ye get seichel? 
He that planted the ozen (ear), shall He not hear? He that formed the ayin (eye), shall He not see? 
He that chastiseth the Goyim, shall not He reprove? He that is the melamed (teacher) of da'as to adam? 
Hashem knoweth the machshevot (thoughts) of adam, that they are hevel (vanity, futile). 
Ashrei (blessed) is the gever whom Thou chastenest, Hashem, and teachest him out of Thy torah; 
That Thou mayest grant him relief from the days of rah, until a shachat (pit) is dug for the rasha. 
For Hashem will not cast off His people, neither will He forsake His nachalah. 
But mishpat shall revert unto tzedek; and all the yishrei lev (upright in heart) shall follow after it. 
Who will rise up for Me against the evildoers? Or who will take a stand for Me against the po'alei aven (workers of iniquity)? 
Unless Hashem had been my help, my nefesh had almost dwelt in dumah (silence). 
When I said, My regel (foot) slippeth, Thy chesed, Hashem, held me up. 
In the multitude of my anxieties within me Thy comforts delight my nefesh. 
Shall the kisse of corruption have chavurah (fellowship) with Thee, those, which deviseth evil by a chok (statute)? 
They band together against the nefesh of the tzaddik, and condemn dahm naki (innocent blood). 
But Hashem is my stronghold; and Elohai is the Tzur of my refuge. 
And He shall turn back upon them their own iniquity, and shall destroy them for their own wickedness; Hashem Eloheinu shall destroy them. 
