VAYIKRA.
Chapter 27.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, and say unto them, When a man shall articulate a neder, the nefashot shall be for Hashem by thy evaluation. 
And thy evaluation shall be of the zachar from esrim shanim even unto shishim shanah, even thy evaluation shall be fifty shekels kesef, after the shekel HaKodesh. 
And if it be a nekevah, then thy evaluation shall be shloshim shekel. 
And if it be from chamesh shanim even unto esrim shanah, then thy evaluation shall be of the zachar esrim shekel, and for the nekevah aseret shekalim. 
And if it be from a month old even unto chamesh shanim, then thy evaluation shall be of the zachar chamishah shekalim kesef, and for the nekevah thy evaluation shall be shloshet shekalim kesef. 
And if it be from shishim shanah and above, if it be a zachar, then thy evaluation shall be chamishah asar shekel, and for the nekevah asarah shekalim. 
But if he be poorer than thy evaluation, then he shall present himself before the kohen, and the kohen shall value him; according to the ability of the one who vowed the neder shall the kohen value him. 
And if it be a behemah, whereof men bring a korban unto Hashem, all that any man giveth of such unto Hashem shall be kodesh. 
He shall not exchange it, nor substitute it, a tov for a rah, or rah for tov: and if he shall at all substitute behemah for behemah, then it and its temurah (substitute) shall be kodesh. 
And if it be any behemah temeiah, of which they do not offer a korban unto Hashem, then he shall present the behemah before the kohen; 
And the kohen shall value it, whether it be tov or rah; as thou valuest it, who art the kohen, so shall it be. 
But if he will at all redeem it, then he shall add chamishito (a fifth part thereof) unto thy evaluation. 
And when a man shall set apart as kodesh his bais to be kodesh unto Hashem, then the kohen shall evaluate it, whether it be tov or rah; as the kohen shall set the value of it, so shall it remain. 
And if he that set it apart as kodesh will redeem his bais, then he shall add the fifth part of the kesef of thy evaluation unto it, and it shall be his. 
And if a man shall set apart as kodesh unto Hashem some part of a sadeh of his possession, then thy evaluation shall be according to its seeding; an area seeded by a homer of barley shall be valued at chamishim shekel kesef. 
If he set apart as kodesh his sadeh from the Shnat HaYovel, according to thy evaluation it shall remain. 
But if he set apart as kodesh his sadeh after the Yovel, then the kohen shall reckon unto him the kesef according to the shanim that remain, even unto the Shnat HaYovel, and it shall be deducted from thy evaluation. 
And if he that set apart as kodesh the sadeh will in any wise redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of the kesef of thy evaluation unto it, and it shall be his. 
And if he will not redeem the sadeh, or if he have sold the sadeh to ish acher (another man), it shall not be redeemed any more. 
But the sadeh, when it is released in the Yovel, shall be kodesh unto Hashem, as a sadeh hacherem (devoted); the possession thereof shall be the kohenʼs. 
And if a man set apart as kodesh unto Hashem a sadeh which he hath bought, which is not of the fields of his possession, 
Then the kohen shall reckon unto him the worth of thy evaluation, even unto the Shnat HaYovel: and he shall give thine evaluation in that day, as kodesh unto Hashem. 
In the Shnat HaYovel the sadeh shall return and revert unto him of whom it was bought, even to him to whom the Achuzzat HaAretz (Ancestral Heritage of the Land) did belong. 
And all thy evaluations shall be according to the shekel HaKodesh; twenty gerah shall be the shekel. 
Only the bechor of the behemah, which should be Hashemʼs Bechor, no man shall set it apart as kodesh; whether it be shor (ox), or seh (sheep): it is Hashemʼs. 
And if it be of a behemah hatemeiah, then he shall redeem it according to thine evaluation, and shall add a fifth part of it thereto; or if it be not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to thy evaluation. 
Nevertheless, no cherem (devoted thing), that a man shall devote unto Hashem of all that he hath, both of adam and behemah, and of the sadeh of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed; every cherem is kodesh kodashim unto Hashem. 
No cherem, which shall be devoted of men, shall be redeemed; but shall surely be put to death. 
And all the ma'aser HaAretz (tithe of the Land), whether of the zera HaAretz, or of the pri HaEtz, is Hashemʼs; it is kodesh unto Hashem. 
And if a man will at all redeem ought of his ma'aserot (tithes), he shall add thereto the fifth part thereof. 
And concerning the ma'aser of the herd, or of the flock, even of whatsoever passeth under the rod, the tenth shall be kodesh unto Hashem. 
He shall not search whether it be tov or rah, neither shall he change it; and if he substitute it at all, then both it and the temurah (exchange, substitute) shall be kodesh; it shall not be redeemed. (Isaiah 53: Moshiach our temurah!) 
These are the mitzvot, which Hashem commanded Moshe for the Bnei Yisroel in Mt. Sinai.
