YEHOSHUA.
Chapter 23.
And it came to pass yamim rabbim after Hashem had given manoach unto Yisroel from all their surrounding enemies, that Yehoshua was zaken and advanced in days. 
And Yehoshua called for Kol Yisroel, and for their zekenim, and for their Rashim, and for their Shofetim, and for their Shoterim, and said unto them, I am zaken and advanced in days; 
And ye have seen all that Hashem Eloheichem hath done unto all these Goyim for your sakes; for Hashem Eloheichem is He that hath fought for you. 
Remember I have allotted unto you these Goyim that remain, to be a nachalah for your shvatim, from the Yarden, even kol HaGoyim that I have cut off, even unto the Yam HaGadol toward the setting of the shemesh. 
And Hashem Eloheichem, He shall expel them from before you, and drive them from out of your sight; and ye shall possess their land, just as Hashem Eloheichem hath promised unto you. 
Therefore chazak! Be very courageous to be shomer and to do all that is written in the Sefer Torah Moshe, that ye turn not aside therefrom to the right or to the left; 
That ye come not among these Goyim, these that remain among you; neither make mention of the shem of eloheihem, nor have to swear by them, neither serve them, nor bow down unto them; 
But have deveykus unto Hashem Eloheichem, just as ye have done unto this day. 
For Hashem hath driven out from before you Goyim Gedolim and atzumim (powerful ones); but as for you, no man hath been able to stand before you unto this day. 
Ish echad of you shall chase eleph; for Hashem Eloheichem, He it is that fighteth for you, just as He hath promised you. 
Be shomer me'od therefore unto yourselves, that ye love Hashem Eloheichem. 
Else if ye do in anywise turn back, and have deveykus unto the remnant of these Goyim, even these that remain among you, and shall inter-marry with them, associate with them, and they with you; 
Have da'as for a certainty that Hashem Eloheichem will no more drive out any of these Goyim from before you; but they shall be pach (snares) and mokesh (traps) unto you, and shot (scourges) on your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until ye perish from off this adamah hatovah which Hashem Eloheichem hath given you. 
And, hinei, now I am going the derech kol ha'aretz; and ye know in all your hearts and in all your nefashot, that not one thing hath failed of all the devarim hatovim which Hashem Eloheichem promised concerning you; all are come to pass unto you, and not one thing hath failed thereof. 
Therefore it shall come to pass, that just as kol hadavar hatov are come upon you, which Hashem Eloheichem promised you; so shall Hashem bring upon you kol hadavar harah, until He hath destroyed you from off this adamah hatovah which Hashem Eloheichem hath given you. 
When ye have transgressed the Brit Hashem Eloheichem, which He commanded you, and have gone and served elohim acharim, and bowed down yourselves to them; then shall the Af Hashem be kindled against you, and ye shall perish quickly from off HaAretz Hatovah which He hath given unto you. 
