IYOV.
Chapter 14.
Adam that is born of isha is of few yamim and full of rogez (unrest). 
He cometh forth like a tzitz (flower), and is cut down; he fleeth also as a tzel, and continueth not. 
And doth Thou open Thine eyes upon such a one, and bringest me into mishpat with Thee? 
Who can bring a tahor (clean thing) out of a tameh (an unclean)? Loh echad (No one). 
Seeing his yamim are determined, the number of his chodashim (months) are with Thee, Thou hast appointed his limits that he cannot exceed. 
Turn from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as a sachir (a hired man), his day. 
For there is tikveh of an etz, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease. 
Though the shoresh (root) thereof grow old in ha'aretz, and the stump thereof die in the aphar (dust), 
Yet through the scent of mayim it will bud, and bring forth branches like a young plant. 
But gever dieth, and wasteth away; yea, adam breathes his last, and where is he? 
As the mayim flow away from the yam, and the nahar (stream) becomes parched and drieth up, 
So ish lieth down, and riseth not, till Shomayim be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep. 
O that Thou wouldest hide me in Sheol, that Thou wouldest conceal me until Thy wrath has passed, that Thou wouldest appoint me a chok (set time), and remember me! 
If a gever die, shall he live again? All the days of my tzava (hard army service) will I wait, till my chalifah (changing, renewal) come. 
Thou shalt call, and I will answer Thee; Thou wilt have a desire for the ma'aseh (work) of Thine hands. 
For now Thou countest my steps. Dost Thou not watch over my chattat? 
My peysha is sealed up in a bag, and Thou would cover over mine avon. 
And surely the har (mountain) falling crumbles, and the tzur (rock) is moved out of its place. 
The mayim wear away the avanim; Thou washest away the things which grow out of the aphar aretz; and Thou destroyest the tikvat enosh. 
Thou prevailest lanetzach (forever) against him, and he passeth away; Thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away. 
His banim come to honor, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them. 
Only his basar shall have pain upon him, and his nefesh within him shall mourn. 
