BERESHIS.
Chapter 11.
And the kol HaAretz was of one language and of devarim achadim (common words). 
And it came to pass, as they migrated from the east, that they found a plain in Eretz Shinar; and they dwelt there. 
And they said one to another, Come, let us make brick, and bake them thoroughly. And they had brick for even (stone), and bitumen had they for mortar. 
And they said, Come, let us build us an Ir and a Migdal, whose rosh (top) may reach unto Shomayim; and let us make us a shem, otherwise we shall be scattered abroad upon the face of kol HaAretz. 
And Hashem came down to see the Ir and the Migdal, which Bnei HaAdam built. 
And Hashem said, See, the Am is echad and they have all one language; and this they begin to do; and now nothing will be impossible for them, which they have proposed to do. 
Come, let Us go down, and there confuse their sefat, that they may not understand one anotherʼs language. 
So Hashem scattered them abroad from there upon the face of kol Ha'Aretz; and they left off building the Ir. 
Therefore is the shem of it called Bavel; because Hashem did there confuse the language of kol Ha'Aretz; and from there did Hashem scatter them abroad upon the face of kol Ha'Aretz. 
These are the toldot of Shem: Shem was a hundred years old, and fathered Arpachshad two years after the mabbul; 
And Shem lived after he fathered Arpachshad five hundred shanah, and fathered banim and banot. 
And Arpachshad lived five and thirty shanah, and fathered Shelach; 
And Arpachshad lived after he fathered Shelach four hundred and three shanim, and fathered banim and banot. 
And Shelach lived thirty shanah, and fathered Ever; 
And Shelach lived after he fathered Ever four hundred and three shanah, and fathered banim and banot. 
And Ever lived four and thirty shanah, and fathered Peleg; 
And Ever lived after he fathered Peleg four hundred and thirty shanah, and fathered banim and banot. 
And Peleg lived thirty shanah, and fathered Reu; 
And Peleg lived after he fathered Reu two hundred and nine shanim, and fathered banim and banot. 
And Reu lived two and thirty shanah, and fathered Serug; 
And Reu lived after he fathered Serug two hundred and seven shanim, and fathered banim and banot. 
And Serug lived thirty shanah, and fathered Nachor; 
And Serug lived after he fathered Nachor two hundred shanah, and fathered banim and banot. 
And Nachor lived nine and twenty shanah, and fathered Terach; 
And Nachor lived after he fathered Terach a hundred and nineteen shanah, and fathered banim and banot. 
And Terach lived seventy shanah, and fathered Avram, Nachor, and Haran. 
Now these are the toldot Terach: Terach fathered Avram, Nachor, and Haran; and Haran fathered Lot. 
And Haran died before his av Terach in the land of his birth, in Ur Kasdim. 
And Avram and Nachor took them nashim: the shem eshet Avram was Sarai; and the shem eshet Nachor was Milcah, the bat Haran Avi Milcah, and Avi Yiskah. 
But Sarai was barren; she had no child. 
And Terach took Avram bno, and ben bno Lot ben Haran, and Sarai his shnur, eshet Avram bno; and they went forth with them from Ur Kasdim, to go into Eretz Kena'an; and they came unto Charan (Haran), and dwelt there. 
And the days of Terach were two hundred and five shanim; and Terach died in Charan (Haran). 
