2 Timotiyos.
Chapter 2.
You, therefore, beni, be empowered in the Chen v'Chesed which is in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
And what things you heard from me through edim rabbim, these things commit to anashim ne'emanim (faithful men) of zrizus (reliability) who will be qualified rabbinic morim to teach others also. 
Take your place in suffering as a chaiyal tov (good soldier) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
No one on duty as a chaiyal is entangled with the everyday chiloni (secular) affairs of inactive duty, in order that he may please the One who has enlisted him. 
And no participant in an athletic tacharut (competition) is crowned unless he competes according to the rules. 
It is the hard working ikkar (farmer) who ought to have the rishonah mipri ha'adamah (the first share from the harvest of the earth). 
Let your hitbonenut be on what I say, for Hashem will give to you binah in all things. 
Remember Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua, of the zera Dovid, and remember the Techiyas HaMoshiach, according to my Besuras HaGeulah, 
For which I suffer as if I were an evil-doer, even to the point of the bais hasoharʼs bonds, but the Dvar Hashem has no bonds. 
Therefore, I endure all things for the sake of the Bechirim (the Chosen ones), in order that they also may obtain the Yeshu'at HaEloheinu in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua with kavod olamim. 
Trustworthy is Hashem, for if we died with Him, also we will live with Him. 
If we endure, we also will reign with Him; if we will deny Him, He also will deny us. 
If we are not ne'emanim (faithful), He remains ne'eman (faithful), for to deny Himself, He is not able. 
Remind them of these things, solemnly warning them in the presence of Hashem not to be engaged in disputes over devarim, which is not beneficial, but only ruins the hearers. 
Do your best to shtel zich (apply yourself), to present yourself to Hashem as one approved, a po'el (workman) without bushah (shame), keeping on a derech yashar the Dvar HaEmes. 
But profane chatter bereft of kedushah, avoid, for such will advance that which is frai (irreligious). 
Their lashon hora will spread like gangrene, as in the case of Hymenaeus and Philetus, 
Who concerning HaEmes missed the mark, teaching that the Techiyas HaMesim has already occurred. They are overthrowing the emunah of some. 
Al kol panim (nevertheless), the solid yesod of Hashem stands firm and zicher (certain), having this seal: v'yoda' Hashem es asher lo(Hashem knows the ones who are his); and let everyone who names the name of Hashem depart from avel (iniquity, gross injustice). 
In a bais gadol, there are not only k'lei (vessels) of gold and silver but also those wooden ones and earthen ones: some, for honorable use; others, for dishonorable use. 
If anyone makes himself tahor from these things he will be a k'li vessel for honorable use, having been set aside as kodesh, useful to HaAdon, ready for every ma'aseh tov. 
But flee from the ta'avot hane'urim (lusts of youth) and pursue tzedek, emunah, ahavah, and shalom with the ones calling on Adoneinu out of a lev tahor. 
But speculations characterized by narrishkait and lacking da'as — such refuse, knowing that they produce fights. 
And an eved Hashem ought not be a Ba'al Machlokes (quarrelsome person), but ought to be eidel (gentle, courteous) to all, a skilled rabbinic moreh, savlan (patient), 
Correcting the mitnaggedim (opponents) in anavat ruach (a spirit of meekness), in the tikvah that Hashem may efsher (perhaps) grant them teshuva, resulting in da'as HaEmes, 
And that they may come to their senses, escaping the pakh (trap) of HaSatan, after having been captured by him to do his will. 
