YECHEZKEL.
Chapter 28.
The Davar Hashem came again unto me, saying, 
Ben adam, say unto the Nagid Tzor, Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Because thine lev is lifted up in pride, and thou hast said, El ani (I am a g-d), and I sit on a moshav elohim (seat of g-ds), in the midst of the yamim (seas); yet thou art adam, and not El, though thou set thine mind as the lev elohim; 
Hinei, thou art more chacham than Daniel; there is no secret that they can hide from thee; 
With thy chochmah and with thine tevunah (understanding) thou hast gotten thee riches, and hast gotten zahav and kesef into thy otzarot; 
By thy great chochmah in thy trade hast thou increased thy riches, and thine lev is lifted up in pride because of thy riches; 
Therefore thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Because thou hast set thine mind as the lev elohim; 
Hineni, therefore I will bring zarim upon thee, the most terrible of the Goyim; and they shall draw their charavot (swords) against the beauty of thy chochmah, and they shall defile thy splendor. 
They shall bring thee down to the shachat (pit), and thou shalt die the deaths of them that are slain in the midst of the yamim (seas). 
Wilt thou yet say before him that slayeth thee, Elohim ani? But thou art adam, and no El, in the yad of him that slayeth thee. 
Thou shalt die the deaths of the arelim (uncircumcised) by the yad of zarim; for I have spoken it, 
Moreover the Devar Hashem came unto me, saying: 
Ben adam, take up a kinah (lamentation) upon HaMelech Tzor (Tyre), and say unto him, Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Thou wast the chotam (seal) of perfection, full of chochmah, and perfect in beauty. 
Thou hast been in Eden, Gan Elohim; every even yekarah (precious stone) was thy covering, the ruby, topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the turquoise, and the emerald, and zahav; the workmanship of thy hand drums and of thy wind instruments was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created. 
Thou art the keruv mimshach (anointed cherub) that guardeth; and I have set thee so; thou wast upon the Har Kodesh Elohim; thou hast walked up and down in the midst of the stones of eish. 
Thou wast tamim in thy drakhim from the day that thou wast created, until wickedness was found in thee. 
By the multitude of thy trading they have filled the midst of thee with chamas, and thou hast sinned; therefore I will banish thee as profane out of the Har Elohim; and I will destroy thee, O guardian keruv, from the midst of the stones of eish. 
Thine lev was lifted up in pride because of thy beauty, thou hast corrupted thy chochmah by reason of thy splendor; I will cast thee to eretz (earth), I will lay thee before melachim, that they may gaze upon thee. 
Thou hast defiled thy mikdashim by the multitude of thine avonot, by the avon of thy trading; therefore will I bring forth an eish from the midst of thee; it shall devour thee, and I will reduce thee to ashes upon ha'aretz in the sight of all them that gaze upon thee. 
All they that know thee among the peoples shall be appalled at thee; thou shalt be a horror, and thou shalt be no more, ad olam. 
Again the Devar Hashem came unto me, saying, 
Ben adam, set thy face toward Tzidon (Sidon), and prophesy against it, 
And say, Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Hineni, I am against thee, O Tzidon; and I will be glorified in the midst of thee; and they shall know that I am Hashem, when I shall have executed shefatim (punishments, judgments) in her, and I shall show Myself as set apart as kodesh in her. 
For I will send into her dever, and dahm into her streets; and the slain shall be judged in the midst of her by the cherev upon her on every side; and they shall know that I am Hashem. 
And there shall be no more a pricking brier unto the Bais Yisroel, nor any painful kotz (thorn) of all that are around them, that despised them; and they shall know that I am Adonoi Hashem. 
Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: When I shall have gathered the Bais Yisroel from the people among whom they are scattered, and I shall show Myself as set apart as kodesh in them in the sight of the Goyim, then shall they dwell in their adamah (land) that I have given to Avdi Ya'akov (My servant Jacob). 
And they shall dwell securely therein, and shall build batim (houses), and plant kramim (vineyards); indeed, they shall dwell securely, when I have executed shefatim (judgments) upon all those that despise them all around them; and they shall know that I am Hashem Eloheihem. 
