DIVREY HAYAMIM ALEF.
Chapter 10.
Now the Pelishtim (Philistines) fought against Yisroel; and the men of Yisroel fled from before the Pelishtim, and fell down chalalim (slain ones) on Mt Gilboa. 
And the Pelishtim followed hard after Sha'ul, and after his banim; and the Pelishtim slaughtered Yonatan, and Avinadav, and Malki-Shu'a, the Bnei Sha'ul. 
And the milchamah became intense against Sha'ul, and the archers overtook him, and he was wounded by the archers. 
Then said Sha'ul to his noseh keli (armor bearer), Draw thy cherev, and thrust me through therewith; lest these arelim (uncircumcised ones) come and abuse me. But his noseh keli would not; for he was very afraid. So Sha'ul took a cherev, and fell upon it. 
And when his noseh keli saw that Sha'ul was dead, he fell likewise on the cherev, and died. 
So Sha'ul died, and his shloshet banim, and all his Bais died together. 
And when kol Ish Yisroel that were in the emek (valley) saw that they fled, and that Sha'ul and his banim were dead, then they abandoned their towns, and fled; and the Pelishtim came and took occupation of them. 
And it came to pass on the next day, when the Pelishtim came to strip the chalalim, that they found Sha'ul and his banim fallen on Mt Gilboa. 
And when they had stripped him, they took his rosh (head), and his keli (armor), and sent into eretz Pelishtim all around, to carry the news unto their atzabim, and to the people. 
And they put his keli in the Bais eloheihem, and fastened his head in the Bais Dagon. 
And when kol Yavesh-Gil'ad heard all that the Pelishtim had done to Sha'ul, 
They arose, kol ish chayil, and took the gufat Sha'ul (body of Sha'ul), and the gufot of his banim, and brought them to Yavesh, and buried their atzmot under the elah (oak tree) in Yavesh, and underwent a tzom shivat yamim. 
So Sha'ul died for his ma'al (unfaithfulness) which he committed against Hashem, even against the Devar Hashem, over which he was not shomer, and also for consulting an ov (one with a familiar spirit) to seek guidance; 
And inquired not of Hashem; therefore He slaughtered him, and turned over the kingdom unto Dovid Ben Yishai. 
