YESHAYAH.
Chapter 16.
Send ye the lamb to the Moshel-Eretz, from Sela by way of the midbar, unto Har Bat Tziyon. 
For it shall be, that, as an oph noded (wandering bird) cast out of the ken (nest), so the Banot Moav shall be at the fords of the Arnon. 
Give us etzah (counsel, advice); make pelilah (decision, justice); cast thy tzel as the lailah in the midst of tzahorayim; hide the fugitives; betray not him that is refugee. 
Let fugitives of Moav dwell with thee; be thou a seter (shelter, hiding place) to them from before the shoded (destroyer); for the oppressor is at an end, shod (destruction) ceaseth, the aggressors are consumed out of HaAretz. 
And in chesed shall the kisse be established; and sitting upon it in emes in the Ohel Dovid, a Shofet seeking mishpat, and hastening tzedek. 
We have heard of the ga'on Moav; he is very proud; even of his ga'avah (haughtiness), and his ga'on, and his insolence; but his boasts shall not be so. 
Therefore shall Moav wail for Moav, everyone shall wail; for the raisin cakes of Kir Chareset shall ye mourn; surely as they who grieve. 
For the fields of Cheshbon languish, and the gefen of Sivmah; Ba'alei Goyim have broken down the choicest vines thereof, they reached even unto Yazer, they wandered to the midbar; her shoots are stretched out, they are gone over the yam. 
Therefore I will bewail with the weeping of Yazer the gefen of Sivmah; I will water thee with my tears, O Cheshbon, and Elealeh; for the shouting for thy summer fruits and for thy katzir has fallen away. 
And simchah is taken away, and gladness out of the carmel (fruitful field), and in the kramim (vineyards) there shall be no singing, neither shall there be shouting; the treaders shall tread out no yayin in their presses; I have made their vintage shouting to cease. 
Therefore my heart shall lament like a kinnor (harp) for Moav, and mine inmost being for Kir-Charesh. 
And it shall come to pass, when it is seen that Moav is weary on the high place, that he shall come to his mikdash (sanctuary) to pray; but he shall not prevail. 
This is the Davar that Hashem hath spoken earlier concerning Moav. 
But now Hashem hath spoken, saying, Within shalosh shanim, as the shenei sachir (years of a hired man), and the kavod Moav shall be degraded, with all that hamon harav (great multitude); and the remnant shall be very small and feeble. 
