MATTITYAHU.
Chapter 5.
When Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach saw the multitudes, he ALAH HAHAR(went up the mountain) and when he sat down, his talmidim came to him. 
Then Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach began to speak, and gave them this torah (teaching), saying, 
Ashrey ANIYEI HARUACH(Blessed, Happy are the poor in spirit) for theirs is the Malchut HaShomayim. 
Ashrey are the AVELIM(the ones mourning), for they will be comforted. 
Ashrey are the ANAVIM(humble), for YIRESHU ARETZ(they will inherit the land). 
Ashrey are the ones hungering and thirsting for TZIDKAT Hashem(Tzedek Olamim, Everlasting Righteousness), for they will be satisfied. 
Ashrey are the merciful, for they will be shown rachamim (mercy). 
Ashrey are those of LEV TAHOR(pure heart), for they will see Hashem. 
Ashrey are the peace-makers, for they will be called bnei haElohim (sons of G-d). 
Ashrey are the ones being persecuted because of TZIDKAT Hashem(righteousness of Hashem), for theirs is the Malchut HaShomayim. 
Ashrey are you when they reproach you and persecute you and speak all kinds of lashon horah against you, speaking sheker (falsehood, lies) because of me. 
Have simcha (joy) and lev sameach (glad heart), for your sachar (reward) is great in Shomayim, for thus they persecuted the Neviim before you. 
You are the melach haaretz (salt of the earth), but if the salt becomes tasteless, in what way will it become salty again? It is no longer good for anything, but is thrown out and trampled by men. 
You are the Ohr HaOlam (the Light of the World). A city lying on a mountaintop cannot be nistar (hidden). 
No one, after lighting a menorah, places it under a measuring basket, but on the shulchan (table), and it gives ohr (light) to kol anshei habais (all in the house). 
In like manner, let your light so shine before Bnei Adam, that they may see your ma'asim tovim (good works) and give kavod (glory) to your Av sh'ba'Shomayim (Father in Heaven). 
Do not think that I came to abolish the Torah or the Neviim. I did not come to abolish but to complete. 
For, omein, truly I say to you, until Shomayim and haaretz pass away, not one yod, not one tag (ornamental flourish), will pass from the Torah until everything is accomplished. 
Therefore, whoever annuls one of the least of these mitzvot (divine commandments given by Hashemto Moshe Rabbenu) and so teaches Bnei Adam, shall be called katon (least) in the Malchut HaShomayim; but whoever practices and teaches them, this one will be called gadol (great) in the Malchut HaShomayim. 
For I say unto you that unless the Tzedek (Righteousness) of you exceeds that of the Sofrim and Perushim, you will certainly not enter the Malchut HaShomayim. 
You have heard that it was said to the ancients, LO TIRTZACH(Do not murder), and every rotzeach (murderer) shall be liable before the Bet Din (Court). 
But I say to you, that everyone who harbors kaas (anger) against his Ach, his chaver, shall be subject to mishpat (judgment); and whoever shall say to his Ach, Reyka! (Good for nothing!) will be subject to the Sanhedrin; and whoever shall say Shoteh! (Fool) shall be subject to Eish Gehinnom (Fire of Hell). 
Therefore, if you bring your korban (sacrifice) to the Mizbeach (altar), and there you remember that your Ach has something against you, 
leave your korban there before the Mizbeach, and go and first be reconciled to your Ach; and then come offer your korban. 
Come to terms quickly with your ish riv (opponent in a lawsuit), while you are a fellow-traveler on the derech eretz, lest the ish riv might deliver you to the shofet (judge), and the shofet might deliver you to the shoter (law official), and the shoter might deliver you to the beit hasohar (prison house). 
For, omein, truly I say to you, you may never come out from there until you repay the last peruta (small coin). 
You have heard that it was said, LO TINAF(Do not commit adultery). 
But I say to you that everyone looking upon a woman with taavah (lust) for her has already committed niuf (adultery) with her in his heart. 
And if your right eye causes you to commit chet (sin), tear it out and throw it from you, for it is better for you that one of your evarim (members) be lost and not your whole basar (body, flesh) be thrown into Gehinnom. 
And if your right hand causes you to commit chet, cut it off and throw it from you, for it is better for you that one of your evarim (members) be lost and not that your whole basar may go into Gehinnom. 
It was also said, Whoever divorces his wife, let him give to her a “get,” a SEFER KERITUT(bill of divorce). 
But I say to you that everyone divorcing his wife, except for the DVAR(indecent thing) of zenut (fornication), makes her become a noefet (adulteress), and whoever marries a gerusha (divorcee) commits niuf (adultery). 
Again, you have heard that it was said to the ancients, You shall not break your nederim (vows), but you shall repay your vows to Hashem. 
But I say to you, Do not swear shevuot (oaths) at all, neither by Shomayim, for it is the kes malchut of Hashem(throne of G-d), 
nor by haaretz, for it is the hadom (footstool) of his feet, nor by Yerushalayim, for it is the kiryat melech rav(city of the great king). 
Neither are you to swear by your rosh, for you are not able to make one hair turn white or black. 
But let your word be ken, ken (yes, yes) or lo, lo (no, no), but anything beyond this is lashon horah. 
You have heard that it was said, AYIN TAKHAT AYIN, SHEN TAKHAT SHEN(An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth). 
But I say to you, Do not set yourself against the rasha (evil person), but whoever hits you on your right cheek, turn to him also the other cheek. 
And the one wishing to sue you and take your tunic, give to him also your kaftan. 
And whoever will force you to go one mile, go with him two. 
And the one asking you to give and the one wishing to borrow from you, from these do not turn away. 
You have heard that it was said, V'AHAVTA L'REACHA(You shall love your neighbor), and you shall hate your oyev (enemy). 
But I say to you, Love your enemies, and offer tefillos (prayers) for the ones bringing redifah (persecution) upon you. 
Do this so that you may become banim of your Av sh'ba'Shomayim, for His shemesh (sun) He makes to rise on the ra'im (evil ones) and the tovim (good ones), and He sends His geshem (rain) upon the tzaddikim (righteous ones) and the resha'im (unrighteous ones). 
For if you have ahavah (love) for the ones who have ahavah for you, what sachar (reward) do you have? Even the mochesim (tax collectors) do that, don't they? 
And if you give Drishat Shalom (greetings) only to your Achim, what extraordinary thing are you doing? Don't even the Goyim do the same? 
Therefore, be shlemim (complete), even as is your Av sh'ba'Shomayim. 
