TEHILLIM.
Chapter 50.
(Mizmor of Asaph) 1 El Elohim, even Hashem, hath spoken, and called Eretz from the mizrach shemesh (rising of sun) unto the going down thereof. 
Out of Tziyon, the perfection of yofi, Elohim shineth forth. 
Eloheinu shall come, and shall not keep silent; an eish shall devour before Him, and it shall be tempestuous me'od round about Him. 
He shall summon Shomayim from above, and ha'aretz, that He may judge His people. 
Gather My chasidim together unto Me; those that have cut a Brit (covenant) with Me by zevach (blood sacrifice). 
And Shomayim shall declare His tzedek; for Elohim Shofet hu. Selah 
Hear, O My people, and I will speak; O Yisroel, and I will testify against thee; I am Elohim, even Eloheicha. 
I will not reprove thee for thy zevakhim. And thy olot are before Me tamid. 
I will accept no par (bull) from thy bais, nor he-goats out of thy folds. 
For every beast of the ya'ar (forest) is Mine, and the behemot upon a thousand hills. 
I know kol oph (every bird) of the harim; and the animals of the wild are Mine. 
If I were hungry, I would not tell thee; for the tevel is Mine, and the fulness thereof. 
Will I eat the basar of bulls, or drink the dahm of goats? 
Sacrifice unto Elohim todah; and pay thy nedarim (vows, pledges) unto Elyon; 
And call upon Me in the Yom Tzarah; I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me. 
But unto the rasha, Elohim saith, What right hast thou to declare My chukkot, or that thou shouldest take My Brit in thy mouth? 
Seeing thou hatest musar (correction), and casteth My devarim behind thee. 
When thou sawest a ganav (thief), then thou consentedst with him, and hast taken thy chelek (lot) with mena'afim (adulterers). 
Thou lettest loose thy mouth to ra'ah, and thy leshon frameth mirmah (deceit). 
Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest thine own ben immecha. 
These things hast thou done, and I kept silent; thou thoughtest that I was altogether like thee; but I will reprove thee, and set the charge before thine eyes. 
Now consider this, ye that forget Elo'ah (G-d), lest I tear you to pieces, and there be none to rescue. 
Whoso offereth todah glorifieth Me; and to him that ordereth his derech aright will I show the Salvation of Elohim. 
