IYOV.
Chapter 16.
Then Iyov answered and said, 
I have heard many such things; menachamei amal (miserable comforters) are ye all. 
Shall divrei ruach (vain words) have an end? Or what provoketh thee that thou answerest? 
I also could speak as ye do; if your nefesh were in place of my nefesh, I could heap up words against you, and shake mine head at you. 
But I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the moving of my shfatayim (lips) should relieve your grief. 
Though I speak, my grief is not relieved, and though I forbear, mah (what) alleviation is it for me? 
But now He hath worn me out; Thou hast made desolate kol adat (whole household) of me. 
And Thou hast filled me with wrinkles, which is an ed (witness) against me; and my leanness rising up in me beareth witness to my face. 
He teareth me in his wrath, who warreth against me; He gnasheth upon me with His shinayim (teeth); mine adversary sharpeneth His eyes against me. 
They have struck at me with their mouth; they have struck me upon the lekhi (cheek) reproachfully; they have conspired themselves together against me. 
El hath delivered me to evil men, and turned me over into the hands of the resha'im. 
I was at ease, but He hath shattered me; He hath also taken me by my neck, and shaken me to pieces, and set me up for His mattarah (object of attack, target). 
His archers surround me, He pierces my klayot (kidneys), and doth not show mercy; He poureth out my gall upon the ground. 
He bursteth upon me again and again; He runneth upon me like a gibbor (warrior). 
I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and laid my keren (horn, strength) in the aphar (dust). 
My face is red with weeping, and on my eyelids is the tzalmavet; 
Not for any chamas in mine hands; also my tefillah is pure. 
O earth, cover not thou my dahm, and let my outcry have no makom (place of rest). 
Also now, hinei, my Ed is in Shomayim, and my Sahed (witness, one who vouches for me) is on high. 
My friends scorn me; but mine eye poureth out tears unto Eloah. 
O that one might plead for a man with Eloah, as a man pleadeth for his neighbor! 
When a few shanot are come, then I shall go the way whence I shall not return. 
