DEVARIM.
Chapter 18.
The kohanim, who are Levi'im, and all the tribe of Levi, shall have no chelek nor nachalah with Yisroel; they shall eat the offerings of Hashem made by eish, even His nachalah. 
Therefore shall they have no nachalah among their achim; Hashem is their nachalah, as He hath said unto them. 
And this shall be the mishpat hakohanim (the right of the kohanim) from the people, from them that offer the zevach, whether it be shor or seh; and they shall give unto the kohen the shoulder, and the two jowls, and the stomach. 
The reshit also of thy grain, of thy wine, and of thine oil, and the reshit of the shearing of thy tzon, shalt thou give him. 
For Hashem Eloheicha hath chosen him out of all thy tribes, to stand to minister in the Shem of Hashem, he and his banim kol hayamim. 
And if a Levi come from any of thy she'arim (gates, i.e., towns) out of kol Yisroel, where he is living, and come with all the earnestness of his nefesh unto the place which Hashem shall choose; 
Then he shall minister in the Shem of Hashem Elohav, as all his achim the Levi'im do, which stand there before Hashem. 
They shall have chelek k'chelek (like portions) to eat, beside that which cometh of the sale of his patrimony. 
When thou art come into ha'aretz which Hashem Eloheicha giveth thee, thou shalt not learn to imitate the to'avot (abominations) of those Goyim. 
There shall not be found among you any one that maketh his ben or his bat to pass through the eish or kosem kesamim (a diviner of divination) or a m'onen (soothsayer, astrologer), or a m'nachesh (one who interprets omens), or a mekhashshef (witch). 
Or one who casts spells, or one who inquires of a ghost or a familiar spirit, or a doresh el hamesim (a consulter of the dead ones, i.e., a necromancer). 
For all that do these things are a to'avat Hashem; and because of these to'evot, Hashem Eloheicha is about to drive them out before thee. 
Thou shalt be tamim (blameless) before Hashem Eloheicha. 
For these Goyim, which thou shalt dispossess, paid heed unto soothsayers, and unto diviners; but as for thee, Hashem Eloheicha hath not suffered thee so to do. 
Hashem Eloheicha will raise up unto thee a Navi from among thee, of thy achim, kamoni (like me); unto him ye must listen; 
According to all that thou desiredst of Hashem Eloheicha in Chorev in the Yom HaKahal, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of Hashem Elohav, neither let me see this eish hagedolah any more, that I die not. 
And Hashem said unto me, They have well spoken that which they have spoken. 
I will raise them up a Navi from among their achim, like unto thee, and will put My words in his mouth; and he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him. 
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not listen unto My words which he shall speak Bishmi (in My Name), I will require it of him. 
But the navi, which shall presume to speak a word Bishmi (In My Name), which I have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in the shem of elohim acharim, even that navi shall die. 
And if thou say in thine lev, How shall we know the word which Hashem hath not spoken? 
When a navi speaketh b'Shem Hashem, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which Hashem hath not spoken, but the navi hath spoken it bezadon (in zadon); thou shalt not be afraid of him. 
