HISGALUS.
Chapter 19.
After these things I heard, as it were, a kol gadol (loud voice) of a great, multititude in Shomayim, saying, “Praise Hashem! The Yeshu'ah (Salvation) and the Kavod (Glory) and the Gevurah (Power) is of Eloheinu! 
Because emes and tzedek are His judgments because He judged the Zonah Hagedolah who was corrupting ha'aretz (the earth) with the zenut (fornication) of her and He took vengeance on her who has on her hands the dahm of His servants.” 
And again they said, “Praise Hashem! The smoke of her ascends l'olemei olamim!” 
And the esrim v'arba'ah Zekenim (twenty-four Elders) fell down and the Arbah Chayyot (four living beings) and they worshiped Hashem who sits on the Kes (Throne), saying, “Omein, Praise Hashem!” 
And a kol (voice) from the Kes (Throne) came forth, saying, “Say ‘Baruch Hashem Eloheinu,’ all you avadim (servants) of him and the ones with yirat Shomayim, ketanim (small ones) and the gedolim (great ones).” 
And I heard, as it were, a sound of a great multitude and a sound like mayim rabbim (many waters) and a sound like mighty thunder saying, “Baruch Hashem! Because Hashem Eloheinu reigns, El Shaddai. 
Let us have simcha and exult in kavod (glory) to him because of the Bedeken of the Kallah of the SEH (Lamb), and the Chosonʼs Tish and she has made herself ready.” 
And it was given to her that she should be clothed with fine linen, bright and tahor (clean); for the fine linen are the Tzedakot of the Kedoshim. 
And he says to me, Write: “Ashrey are the ones having been summoned to the Seudas Moshiach, the Seudas Yom Nisu'im of the SEH”(Lamb). And he says to me, “These are divrei Emes of Hashem.” 
And I fell before his feet to worship him. And he says to me, “You must abstain from such. For I am a fellow eved with both you and your chaverim who hold on to the edut (testimony) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach; worship Hashem! For the edut (testimony) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua is the Ruach HaNevu'ah (prophecy).” 
And I saw Shomayim having been opened, and, hinei, a sus lavan (white horse) and the one riding on it is called Ne'eman and Yashar, and in Tzedek He judges and makes milchamah (war). 
And the Eynayim of Him are as a flame of eish, and on the head of Him are many atarot, and He has a Name inscribed of which no one has da'as except Himself. 
And He is robed in a kaftan dipped in dahm, and His Name is called, “The dvar hashem.” 
And the Tzivos Hashem(the Army of Hashem), the Tzivos HaShomayim, were following Him on susim levanim (white horses). They were dressed in fine linen, lavan (white) and tahor (clean). 
And out of the peh (mouth) of Him goes forth a sharp cherev, that with it He may strike the Goyim, and He will shepherd them with a shevet barzel, and He treads the press of the yayin of the fury of Charon Af of Hashem, El Shaddai. 
And He has on His kaftan and on His thigh a name inscribed: melech hamelachim and adon haadonim. 
And I saw one malach (angel) having taken his stand in the shemesh (sun) and he cried out in a kol gadol (loud voice), saying to all the birds flying in mid-heaven, “Bo! Gather to the Seudah Hagedolah of Hashem; 
That you may eat the basar of melachim (kings) and the basar of captains and the basar of strong men and the basar of susim and of their riders and the basar of all, both, bnei Chorin and avadim and the ketanim and the gedolim.” 
And I saw the Chayyah Anti-Moshiach and the melachim (kings) of ha'aretz and their armies assembled to make milchamah (war) with the One sitting on the sus (horse) and with the Tzivos Hashem(Army of Hashem). 
And the Chayyah Anti-Moshiach was captured and, with it, the Navi Sheker (the False Prophet), the one having performed the otot (signs) before it, by which he deceived the ones having received the tav (mark) of the Chayyah Anti-Moshiach and the ones worshiping its Atzav (idol, image). These two were cast alive into the Agam HaEish (Lake of Fire) burning with gofrit (sulfur). 
And the rest were killed with the cherev (sword) of the One sitting on the sus (horse), the cherev (sword) having proceeded out of the PEH of Him, and all the birds were fully fed by their basar. 
