1 Corinthians.
Chapter 16.
Now, concerning the maamadot (financial contributions) and the pishkeh (pushke) we are circulating throughout the kehillot for the benefit of the Yerushalayim Kedoshim, as I directed the kehillot of Galatia, so you do also. 
Every Yom Rishon of each week, each of you by himself make something farnumen (set aside), storing up according to his hakhnasah (income), so that collections need not be made when I come. 
And when I arrive, whomever you approve, these I will send with iggrot to carry your matanah to Yerushalayim. 
And if it is fitting for me also to go, they will go with me. 
And I will come to you whenever I pass through Macedonia, for I will be passing through Macedonia. 
Efsher (perhaps) I will stay with you, or even spend the choref (winter) that you may help me with a send-off wherever I may go. 
For I do not want to see you now in passing, for I have the tikvah to remain some time with you, im yirtzeh Hashem(G-d willing, permitting). 
But, I will remain on in Ephesus until Shavuos, 
For a delet (door) has opened, great and effective, for me, but there are many mitnaggedim (opponents). 
Now if Timotiyos comes, see that he may be with you without fear; for the avodas kodesh of Hashem he labors in as I do. 
Therefore, let not anyone despise him. But give him a send-off in shalom that he may come to me; for I am waiting for him with the Achim b'Moshiach. 
Now, concerning Apollos the Ach b'Moshiach, I strongly exhorted him, that he would come to you with the Achim b'Moshiach. But he is beshum oifen (absolutely) unwilling to go at this time, but he will come whenever he has an opportunity. 
Watch, stand firm in the emunah (faith), be men, be strong. 
Let everything you do be done in ahavah (agape). 
Now, I urge you, Achim b'Moshiach, you have da'as of the bais of Stephanas, that it is the bikkurim of Achaia, and that they have with devotion and zerizut (diligence) put themselves in avodas kodesh ministry for the Kedoshim. 
Become submissive to such as him and to everyone joining in the avodas kodesh and laboring. 
Now, I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and of Fortunatus and of Achaicus, because these men filled up your absence, 
For they refreshed my neshamah and yours. Give recognition to such men. 
Drishat Shalom from the Kehillot of Moshiach of Asia. Drishat Shalom warmly in Adoneinu from Aquila and Prisca, together with the Adat Moshiach in their bais. 
Drishat Shalom from all the Achim b'Moshiach. Greet one another with a neshikat hakodesh (holy kiss). 
this greeting with my own hand, sha'ul. 
If anyone does not have ahavah (love) for HaAdon, Alav ki Cherem hu (a curse of the ban of destruction is on him). Marana (our L-rd), tha (come). 
The Chen v'Chesed Hashem of Moshiach Adoneinu be with you. 
My ahavah be with you all in Moshiach Yehoshua.
