BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 31.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Avenge the Bnei Yisroel of the Midyanim; afterward shalt thou be gathered unto thy people. 
And Moshe spoke unto HaAm, saying, Arm some of your anashim unto war, let them go against Midyan, and avenge Hashem of Midyan. 
Of every matteh a thousand, throughout kol mattot Yisroel, shall ye send to war. 
So there were supplied out of the thousands of Yisroel, an elef (a thousand) of every matteh, sheneym asar elef armed for war. 
And Moshe sent them to war, a thousand of every tribe, them and Pinchas Ben El'azar HaKohen, to the war, with the kelei hakodesh, and the khatzotzerot hateru'ah in his yad. 
And they warred against Midyan, just, as Hashem commanded Moshe; and they slaughtered kol zachar. 
And they slaughtered the Melachim of Midyan, besides the rest of them that were slain; namely, Evi, and Rekem, and Tzur, and Chur, and Reva, five melachim of Midyan; Balaam Ben Be'or also they slaughtered with the cherev. 
And the Bnei Yisroel took all the nashim of Midyan captive, and their little ones, and took the plunder of all their behemah, and all their mikneh, and all their goods. 
And they burned with eish all their towns wherein were their moshavot, and all their camps. 
And they took all the plunder, and all the spoil, both of adam and of behemah. 
And they brought the captives, and the plunder, and the spoil, unto Moshe, and El'azar HaKohen, and unto the Adat Bnei Yisroel, unto the machaneh at the plains of Moav, which are by Yarden near Yericho. 
And Moshe, and El'azar HaKohen, and all the nasiim of the Edah, went forth to meet them outside the machaneh. 
And Moshe was in wrath with the pekudei hechayil (officers of the army), with the sarim over thousands, and sarim over hundreds, which were returning from the milchamah of the army. 
And Moshe said unto them, Have ye saved all the nekevah alive? 
Hinei, these caused the Bnei Yisroel, through the davar Balaam, to turn unfaithful against Hashem in the matter of Pe'or, and there was a magefah (plague) among the Adat Hashem. 
Now therefore slaughter every zachar among the little ones, and kill every isha that hath known ish by lying with zachar. 
But all the girl nashim, that have no da'as of lying with zachar, save alive for yourselves. 
And do ye abide outside the machaneh shivat yamim; whosoever hath killed nefesh, and whosoever hath touched any chalal, purify both yourselves and your captives on Yom HaShelishi and on Yom HaShevi'i. 
And purify all your beged, and all keli ohr (all that is made of leather), ma'aseh izzim (all that is made of goat hair) and keli etz (all that is make of wood). 
And El'azar HaKohen said unto the anshei hatzavah which went into milchamah, This is the chukkat hatorah which Hashem commanded Moshe: 
Only the zahav, and the kesef, the nechoshet, the barzel, the bedil, and the oferet, 
Everything that can withstand eish, ye shall make it go through the eish, and it shall be tahor; nevertheless it shall be purified with the mayim of niddah; and all that can not withstand the eish ye shall make go through the mayim. 
And ye shall wash your begadim on Yom HaShevi'i, and ye shall be tahor, and afterward ye shall come into the machaneh. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Take inventory of the spoil that was taken, both of adam and of behemah, thou, and El'azar HaKohen, and the Rashei Avot HaEdah: 
And divide the spoil into two parts: between them that took the milchamah upon them, who went out to battle, and kol HaEdah; 
And levy a mekhes (tribute) unto Hashem of the anshei hamilchamah which went out to battle: one nefesh from five hundred, both of adam, and of bakar, and of chamorim, and of tzon; 
Take it of their half, and give it unto El'azar HaKohen, for a terumat Hashem. 
And of the Bnei Yisroelʼs half, thou shalt take one portion of fifty, of adam, of bakar, of chamorim, and of tzon, of all behemah, and give them unto the Levi'im, who are shomrei mishmeret Mishkan Hashem(who are guardians of the Mishkan Hashem). 
And Moshe and El'azar HaKohen did just as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And the spoil, being the rest of the plunder which the am hatzava (personnel of the army) had taken, was 675,000 tzon, 
And 72,000 bakar, 
And 61,000 chamorim, 
And 32,000 nefesh adam from the nashim who had no da'as of zachar by lying with him. 
And the half, which was the chelek of them that went out to war, was in number 337,500 tzon; 
And the mekhes (tribute) for Hashem of the tzon was 675. 
And the bakar were 36,000; of which the mekhes for Hashem was 72. 
And the chamorim were 30,500; of which the mekhes for Hashem was 61. 
And the nefesh adam were 16,000; of which the mekhes for Hashem was 32 nefesh. 
And Moshe gave the mekhes, which was the terumat Hashem, unto El'azar HaKohen, as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And of the Bnei Yisroelʼs half, which Moshe divided from the anashim hatzove'im, 
(Now the half that pertained unto the Edah was 337,500 tzon, 
And 36,000 bakar, 
And thirty thousand chamorim and five hundred, 
And sixteen thousand nefesh adam); 
Even of the Bnei Yisroelʼs half, Moshe took one portion of fifty, both of adam and of behemah, and gave them unto the Levi'im, who were shomrei mishmeret Mishkan Hashem; just as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And the pekudim (officers) which were over thousands of the tzava (army), the sarim of thousands, and sarim of hundreds, came near unto Moshe; 
And they said unto Moshe, Thy avadim have taken the muster census of the anshei hamilchamah which are under our charge, and there was missing not one ish of us. 
We have therefore brought a korban Hashem, what every ish hath gotten, of articles of zahav, armlets, and bracelets, rings, earrings, and necklaces, to make kapporah for our nefashot before Hashem. 
And Moshe and El'azar HaKohen took the zahav of them, even all wrought jewels. 
And all the zahav of the terumah (offering) that they offered up to Hashem, of the sarim of thousands, and of the sarim of hundreds, was sixteen thousand seven hundred and fifty shekels. 
(For the anshei hatzava had taken plunder, every ish for himself.) 
And Moshe and El'azar HaKohen accepted the zahav of the sarim of thousands and of hundreds, and brought it into the Ohel Mo'ed, for a zikaron (memorial) for the Bnei Yisroel before Hashem. 
