YECHEZKEL.
Chapter 45.
Moreover, when ye shall divide by lot HaAretz as nachalah, ye shall offer a terumah (holy portion, gift) unto Hashem, kodesh from HaAretz; the length shall be five and twenty thousand long, and the width shall be ten thousand. This shall be kodesh in all the boundary thereof round about. 
Of this area there shall be for the Kodesh a square five hundred by five hundred all around; and fifty cubits round about for the migrash (open space) thereof. 
And of this middah shalt thou measure the length of five and twenty thousand, and the width of ten thousand; and in it shall be the Mikdash and the Kodesh HaKodashim. 
The kodesh of HaAretz shall be for the Kohanim the Mesharetim of the Mikdash, which shall come near to minister unto Hashem; and it shall be a place for their batim (houses), and a mikdash for the Mikdash. 
And the five and twenty thousand of length, and the ten thousand of width shall also the Levi'im, the Mesharetim of the Beis, have for themselves, for a achuzzah for twenty leshakhot. 
And ye shall allot the achuzzah of the Ir five thousand wide, and five and twenty thousand long, alongside the terumat hakodesh; it shall be for kol Bais Yisroel. 
And a portion shall be for the Nasi on the one side and on the other side of the terumat hakodesh, and of the achuzzah of the Ir, before the terumat hakodesh, and before the achuzzah of the Ir, from the west side westward, and from the east side eastward; and the length shall correspond to one of the chalakim (portions), from the west boundary unto the east boundary. 
In the land shall be his achuzzah in Yisroel; and My Nasiim (Princes, Rulers) shall no more oppress My people; and the rest of HaAretz shall they give to Bais Yisroel according to their Shivtei. 
Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Let it suffice you, O Nasi'im (Princes, Rulers) of Yisroel: remove chamas and oppression, and execute mishpat and tzedakah, take away your gerushot (exactions) from My people, saith Adonoi Hashem. 
Ye shall have me'oznei tzedek (honest scales), and an ephah tzedek, and a bas tzedek. 
The ephah and the bas shall be of one measure, that the bas may contain the tenth part of a chomer, and the ephah the tenth part of a chomer; the measure thereof shall be after the chomer. 
And the shekel shall be twenty gerah; twenty shekalim, five and twenty shekalim, fifteen shekel, shall be the minah for you. 
This is the terumah that ye shall offer; the sixth part of an ephah of a chomer of chittim, and ye shall give the sixth part of an ephah of a chomer of se'orim; 
Concerning the chok of shemen, the bas of shemen, ye shall offer the tenth part of a bas out of the cor, which is a chomer of ten bas; for ten basim are a chomer; 
And one seh out of the tzon, out of two hundred, out of the mashkeh of Yisroel; for a minchah, and for an olah, and for shelamim, to make kapporah for them, saith Adonoi Hashem. 
Kol HaAm HaAretz shall give this terumah for the Nasi in Yisroel. 
And it shall be the part of the Nasi to give olot, and minchah, and nesekh, in the Chagim, and in the Rosh Chodesh, and in the Shabbatot, in all Mo'adim of the Bais Yisroel; he shall prepare the chattat, and the minchah, and the olah, and the shelamim, to make kapporah for Bais Yisroel. 
Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: In the first month, in the first day of the month, thou shalt take a young bull tamim (without blemish), and cleanse the Mikdash; 
And the Kohen shall take of the dahm of the chattat, and put it upon the mezuzat HaBeis, and upon the four pinnot of the enclosure of the Mizbe'ach, and upon the mezuzat Sha'ar HeKhatzer HaPenimit. 
And so thou shalt do the seventh day of the month for every one that is unwitting, and for him that is ignorant; so shall ye make kapporah for the Beis. 
In the first month, in the fourteenth day of the month, ye shall have the Pesach, a Chag shevu'ot yamim; matzot shall be eaten. 
And upon that day shall the Nasi prepare for himself and for kol Am HaAretz a bull for a chattat. 
And shivat yamim of the Chag he shall prepare an olah to Hashem, seven bulls and seven rams temimim (without blemish) daily the shivat hayamim; and a goat daily for a chattat. 
And he shall prepare a minchah of an ephah for a bull, and an ephah for a ram, and a hin of shemen for an ephah. 
In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of the month, shall he do the same in the Chag of the shivat hayamim, according to the chattat, according to the olah, and according to the minchah, and according to the shemen. 
