YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 19.
Thus saith Hashem, Go and acquire a yotzerʼs earthen jar, and take some of the Ziknei HaAm, and of the Ziknei HaKohanim; 
And go forth unto the Gey Ben-Hinnom, which is by the petach (entrance) of the Potsherd Gate, and proclaim there the Devarim that I shall tell thee, 
And say, Hear ye the Devar Hashem, O melachim of Yehudah, and inhabitants of Yerushalayim; Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os, the Elohei Yisroel; Behold, I will bring ra'ah upon this makom, the which whosoever heareth, his oznayim shall tingle. 
Because they have forsaken Me, and have made this an alien place, and have burned offerings in it unto elohim acherim, whom neither they nor avoteihem have known, nor the melachim of Yehudah, and have filled this makom with the dahm of innocents; 
They have built also the high places of Ba'al, to burn their banim with eish for olot unto Ba'al, which I commanded not, nor spoke it, neither came it into My lev; 
Therefore, hinei, the days come, saith Hashem, that this makom shall no more be called Tophet, nor Gey Ben-Hinnom, but The Valley of Slaughter. 
And I will make void the etzah of Yehudah and Yerushalayim in this makom; and I will cause them to fall by the cherev before their oyevim, and by the hands of them that seek their nefesh; and their nevelah (carcasses) will I give to be food for the oph HaShomayim, and for the behemat ha'aretz. 
And I will make this city desolate, and an object of hissing; every one that passeth thereby shall be astonished and hiss because of all the makkot (plagues) thereof. 
And I will cause them to eat the basar of their banim and the basar of their banot, and they shall eat every one the basar of his re'a in the siege and desperation, wherewith their oyevim, and they that seek their nefesh, shall drive them to despair. 
Then shalt thou break the earthen jar in the sight of the anashim that go with thee, 
And shalt say unto them, Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os; Even so will I break this people and this city, as one breaketh a yotzerʼs vessel, that cannot be made whole again; and they shall bury them in Tophet, until there be no makom (place, room) to bury. 
Thus will I do unto this makom, saith Hashem, and to the inhabitants thereof, and even make this city as Tophet; 
And the batim (houses) of Yerushalayim, and the batim (houses) of the melachim of Yehudah, shall be tameh as the makom of Tophet, because of all the batim (houses) upon whose roofs they have burned ketoret unto all the Tzeva HaShomayim, and have poured out nesakhim (drink offerings) unto elohim acherim. 
Then came Yirmeyah from Tophet, from where Hashem had sent him to prophesy; and he stood in the khatzer (courtyard) of the Beis Hashem; and said to kol HaAm, 
Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel; Hineni, I will bring upon this city and upon all her towns kol hara'ah that I have pronounced against it, because they have stiffened their necks, that they might not hear My Devarim. 
