DEVARIM.
Chapter 8.
Kol hamitzvot which I command thee today shall ye be shomer to do, lema'an (in order that) ye may live, and multiply, and go in and possess ha'aretz which Hashem swore unto Avoteichem. 
And thou shalt remember kol haderech which Hashem Eloheicha led thee these arba'im shanah in the midbar, to humble thee, and to prove thee, to know what was in thine lev, whether thou wouldest be shomer over His mitzvot, or no. 
And He humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with manna, which thou knewest not, neither did Avoteicha know; that He might make thee know that man doth not live by lechem only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of Hashem doth man live. 
Thy raiment did not increase old upon thee, neither did thy foot swell, these arba'im shanah. 
Thou shalt also consider in thine lev, that, as a man chasteneth bno, so Hashem Eloheicha chasteneth thee. 
Therefore thou shalt be shomer over the mitzvot of Hashem Eloheicha, to walk in His ways, and to fear Him. 
For Hashem Eloheicha bringeth thee into an eretz tovah, a land of brooks of mayim, of fountains and depths that spring out of valleys and hills; 
An eretz chittah, and se'orah (barley), and gefen, and te'enah, and pomegranates; an eretz zayit shemen, and devash; 
An eretz wherein thou shalt eat lechem without scarceness, thou shalt not lack anything in it; an eretz whose stones are barzel, and out of whose hills thou mayest dig nechoshet (bronze). 
When thou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless Hashem Eloheicha for ha'aretz hatovah which He hath given thee. 
Beware that thou forget not Hashem Eloheicha, in not being shomer over His mitzvot, and His mishpatim, and His chukkot, which I command thee today; 
Lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly batim (houses) and dwelt therein; 
And when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy kesef and thy zahav is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied; 
Then thine lev be lifted up, and thou forget Hashem Eloheicha which brought thee forth out of Eretz Mitzrayim, from the bais avadim; 
Who led thee through that great and terrible midbar, wherein were fiery nachash, and akrav (scorpions), and parched earth, where there was no mayim; Who brought thee forth mayim out of the rock of flint; 
Who fed thee in the midbar with manna, which Avoteicha knew not, that He might humble thee, and that He might prove thee, to do thee good at thy acharit; 
And thou say in thine lev, My ko'ach (power) and the might of mine hand hath gotten me this chayil (wealth). 
But thou shalt remember Hashem Eloheicha; for it is He that giveth thee power to get wealth, that He may establish His Brit which He swore unto Avoteicha, as it is yom hazeh. 
And it shall be, if thou do at all forget Hashem Eloheicha, and walk after acharei elohim, and serve them, and worship them, I testify against you today that ye shall surely perish. 
As the Goyim which Hashem destroyeth before your face, so shall ye perish; because ye would not be obedient unto the voice of Hashem Eloheichem. 
