TEHILLIM.
Chapter 25.
(Of Dovid) 1Aleph Unto Thee, Hashem, do I lift up my nefesh. 
Bais O Elohai, I trust in Thee: let me not be ashamed, let not mine oyevim triumph over me. 
Gimel Yea, let none that wait hoping in Thee be ashamed; let them be ashamed which transgress without cause. 
Dalet Show me Thy ways, Hashem; teach me Thy paths. 
Heh Vav Lead me in Thy emes, and teach me; for Thou art the Elohei of my Salvation; on Thee do I wait kol hayom. 
Zayin Remember, Hashem, Thy rachamim and Thy lovingkindnesses; for they have ever been of old. 
Chet Remember not the chattot of my youth, nor my peysha'im; according to Thy chesed remember Thou me for the sake of Thy goodness, Hashem. 
Tet Tov and yashar is Hashem; therefore will He teach chatta'im in the Derech. 
Yod The meek will He guide in mishpat; and the aniyim will He teach His way. 
Kaph All the paths of Hashem are chesed and emes unto such as keep His Brit (covenant) and His Edot (covenant demands, urgings, reminders, testimonies). 
Lamed For the sake of Thy Shem, Hashem, pardon mine iniquity; for it is great. 
Mem What man is he that feareth Hashem? Him shall He teach in the Derech that he shall choose. 
Nun His nefesh (soul) shall dwell in prosperity; and his zera shall inherit the earth. 
Samech The secret of Hashem is with them that fear Him; and He will show them His Brit (covenant). 
Ayin Mine eyes are ever toward Hashem; for He shall pluck my feet out of the reshet (net). 
Peh Turn Thee unto me, and be gracious unto me; for I am yachid (alone, lonely) and afflicted. 
Tzade The tzoros of my lev are multiplied; O bring Thou me forth out of my distresses. 
Resh Look upon mine affliction and my pain; and take away all my chattot. 
Resh Look upon mine enemies; for they are increased; and they hate me with sinas chamas. 
Shin Be shomer over my nefesh, and deliver me; let me not be ashamed; for I take refuge in Thee. 
Tav Let tohm (integrity, guilelessness) and uprightness preserve me; for I wait on Thee. 
Redeem Yisroel, O Elohim, out of all his tzoros. 
