DIVREY HAYAMIM BAIS.
Chapter 10.
And Rechav'am went to Shechem, for to Shechem were kol Yisroel come to make him melech. 
And it came to pass, when Yarov'am ben Nevat, who was in Mitzrayim, where he fled from the presence of Sh'lomo HaMelech heard it, that Yarov'am returned out of Mitzrayim. 
And they sent and called him. So Yarov'am and kol Yisroel came and spoke to Rechav'am, saying, 
Avicha made our ol (yoke) kasheh (difficult, harsh); now therefore ease thou somewhat the grievous avodas Avicha, and his heavy ol (yoke) that he put upon us, and we will serve thee. 
And he said unto them, Shuvu (come back, return) unto me after shloshet yamin. And HaAm departed. 
And HaMelech Rechav'am took counsel with the Zekenim that had stood before Sh'lomo Avi while he yet lived, saying, What counsel give ye me to return answer to HaAm HaZeh? 
And they spoke unto him, saying, If thou be kind to HaAm HaZeh, and please them, and speak devarim tovim to them, they will be thy avadim kol hayamim (all the days). 
But he forsook the Atzat HaZekenim they gave him, and took counsel with the yeladim that were brought up with him, that stood before him. 
And he said unto them, What advice give ye that we may return answer to HaAm HaZeh, which have spoken to me, saying, Ease somewhat haOl that Avicha did put upon us? 
And the yeladim that grew up with him spoke unto him, saying, Thus shalt thou answer HaAm that spoke unto thee, saying, Avicha made our ol (yoke) heavy, but make thou it somewhat lighter for us; thus shalt thou say unto them, My little finger is thicker than the loins of Avi. 
For whereas Avi put an ol kaved (a heavy yoke) upon you, I will add more to your ol (yoke). Avi chastised you with shotim (whips), but I will chastise you with akrabim (scorpions). 
So Yarov'am and kol HaAm came to Rechav'am on the Yom HaShelishi, as HaMelech said, Shuva (return) to me on the Yom HaShelishi. 
And HaMelech answered them kashah (harshly); and HaMelech Rechav'am forsook the Atzat HaZekenim, 
And answered them after the Atzat HaYeladim, saying, Avi made your ol (yoke) heavy, but I will add thereto; Avi chastised you with shotim (whips), but I will chastise you with akrabim (scorpions). 
So HaMelech paid heed not unto HaAm, for the nesibah (turn of events, circumstance) was of HaElohim, that Hashem might perform His Devar, which He spoke by the yad Achiyah HaShiloni to Yarov'am ben Nevat. 
And when kol Yisroel saw that HaMelech would not pay heed unto them, HaAm answered HaMelech, saying, What chelek have we in Dovid? We have none nachalah in Ben Yishai. Every ish to your ohalim, O Yisroel! and now, Dovid, see to thine own Bais! So kol Yisroel went to their ohalim. 
But as for the Bnei Yisroel that dwelt in the towns of Yehudah, Rechav'am reigned over them. 
Then HaMelech Rechav'am sent Hadoram who was over the mas (tax, tribute); and the Bnei Yisroel stoned him with stones, that he died. But HaMelech Rechav'am made speed to get up into his merkavah, to escape to Yerushalayim. 
And Yisroel rebelled against the Bais Dovid unto Hayom Hazeh. 
