BERESHIS.
Chapter 25.
Then again Avraham took an isha, and her shem was Keturah. 
And she bore him Zimran, and Yokshan, and Medan, and Midyan, and Yishbak, and Shuach. 
And Yokshan fathered Sheva, and Dedan. And the bnei Dedan were Ashurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. 
And the bnei Midyan; Ephah, and Epher, and Chanokh, and Avida, and Eldaah. All these were the bnei Keturah. 
And Avraham gave all that he had unto Yitzchak. 
But unto the bnei hapilageshim (sons of the concubines), which Avraham had, Avraham gave mattanot, and sent them away from Yitzchak bno, while he yet lived, eastward, unto eretz kedem. 
And these are the days of the years of Avrahamʼs life which he lived, a hundred threescore and fifteen shanim. 
Then Avraham breathed his last, and died in a good old age, a zaken, full of years; and was gathered to his people. 
And his banim Yitzchak and Yishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the sadeh of Ephron ben Tzochar the Chitti, which is near Mamre; 
The sadeh which Avraham purchased of the bnei Chet, there was Avraham buried, and Sarah his wife. 
And it came to pass after the mot Avraham, that Elohim blessed Yitzchak bno; and Yitzchak dwelt near Be'er Lachai Roi. 
Now these are the toldot Yishmael ben Avraham, whom Hagar the Egyptian, shifchat Sarah, bore unto Avraham: 
And these are the shemot bnei Yishmael, by their shemot, according to their toldot: the bechor of Yishmael, Nevayot; and Kedar, and Adbe'el, and Mivsam, 
And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 
Chadad, and Tema, Yetur, Naphish, and Kedmah: 
These are the bnei Yishmael, and these are their shemot, by their settlement, and by their camps; twelve nasiim (princes, rulers) according to their tribes. 
And these are the years of the life of Yishmael, an hundred and thirty and seven shanah; and he breathed his last and died; and was gathered unto his people. 
And they dwelt from Chavilah unto Shur, that is near Mitzrayim, as thou goest toward Assyria; they took their place east of their brethren. 
And these are the toldot of Yitzchak ben Avraham: Avraham fathered Yitzchak; 
And Yitzchak was arba'im shanah when he took Rivkah as his wife, the bat Betuel HaArami of Paddan-Aram, the achot Lavan HaArami. 
And Yitzchak davened to Hashem on behalf of his isha, because she was barren; and Hashem was entreated of him, and Rivkah his isha conceived. 
And the banim struggled jostling within her; and she said, If it be well, why am I thus? And she went to inquire of Hashem. 
And Hashem said unto her, Two goyim (nations) are in thy womb, and two peoples shall be separated from within thee; and the one people shall be stronger than the other people; and the older shall serve the younger. 
And when her days were fulfilled to be delivered, hinei, there were twins in her womb. 
And the first came out admoni (red) all over like a hairy garment; and they called shmo Esav. 
And after that came out his brother, and his yad was grasping on akev Esav; and shmo was called Ya'akov; and Yitzchak was threescore shanah when she bore them. 
And the nearim grew: and Esav was a skilled hunter, an ish sadeh; and Ya'akov was an ish tam (quiet man), dwelling in ohalim. 
And Yitzchak loved Esav, because he did eat of his wild game; but Rivkah loved Ya'akov. 
And Ya'akov cooked stew: and Esav came from the sadeh, and he was famished. 
And Esav said to Ya'akov, Let me eat now some of the adom (red stew); for I am famished; therefore was shmo called Edom. 
And Ya'akov said, First sell me today thy bechorah (birthright, right of the firstborn). 
And Esav said, Hinei, I am at the point of death; and what profit shall this bechorah do to me? 
And Ya'akov said, Swear to me this day; and he swore unto him; and he sold his bechorah unto Ya'akov. 
Then Ya'akov gave Esav lechem and adashim (lentils) stew; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way; thus Esav despised his bechorah. 
