MARKOS.
Chapter 11.
And when they draw near to Yerushalayim at Beit-Pagey and Beit-Anyah near the Mount of Olives, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach sends two of his talmidim, 
And says to them, Go into the shtetl ahead of you, and ofen ort (immediately) as you enter it, you will find an AYIR(colt) tied there, on which no one of Bnei Adam yet has ever sat; untie it and bring it here. 
And if anyone says to you, Why are you doing this? You say, HaAdon has need of it and will send it here again. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiachʼs talmidim left and found an AYIR(colt) tied at the shaar (gate) outside on the rekhov (street). And they untied him. 
And some by-standers were saying to them, What are you doing untying the AYIR? 
And the talmidim spoke to them just as Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach had instructed them. And the by-standers permitted them. 
And the talmidim brought the AYIR to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, and they lay upon it their garments, and he sat upon it. 
And many spread their garments on the derech, but others spread leafy branches they had cut from the sadot (fields). 
And the vanguard and rearguard of the procession were crying out, HOSHAN NAH!(Save now) BARUCH HABAH B'SHEM ADONOI! 
A bracha on the coming Malchut Dovid Avinu! Hoshan nah in the highest! 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach entered into Yerushalayim into the Beis HaMikdash and, having looked around at everything, and, the hour now being late, he went out to Beit-Anyah with the Shneym Asar (Twelve). 
And on the next day, when they came from Beit-Anyah, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was hungry. 
And having seen in the distance an etz te'enah (fig tree) in leaf, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach approached it to see whether he might find pri (fruit) on it. But when he came to it, he found nothing except leaves. For it was not the te'enim season. 
And in reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to it, May no one ever be nourished from pri from you again! And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiachʼs talmidim were listening. 
Then they came to Yerushalayim. And having entered the Beis HaMikdash, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach began to drive out the ones buying and selling in the Beis HaMikdash, and he overturned the shulchanot (tables) of the machalifei hakesafim (money changers) and the chairs of the ones selling the yonim (doves). 
And he was not allowing anyone to carry things through the Beis HaMikdash. 
And he was teaching torah and he was saying to them, Has it not been written, BEITI BEIT TEFILLAH YIKAREI LKHOL HAAMMIM (My House shall be called a House of Prayer for all peoples), but you have made it a MEARAT PARITZIM (den of robbers). 
And the Rashei Hakohanim (the Chief Priests) and the Sofrim (Scribes) heard this, and they were seeking how they might destroy him, for they were afraid of him, for all the multitude were amazed at his torah (teaching). 
And when it became late, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and his talmidim went out of the city. 
And in the boker (morning), early, as they passed by, they saw the etz teenah (fig tree) having been withered from the roots. 
And, having remembered, Shim'on Kefa says to him, Rebbe, look, the etz teenah (fig tree) which you cursed has been withered. 
And in reply Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Have emunah in Hashem. 
Omein, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, be lifted up and be thrown into the sea, and does not waver in his lev (heart) but has emunah that what he says happens, so it will be for him. 
For this reason, I say to you, everything for which you daven (pray), everything you request in tefillos (prayers), have emunah (faith) that you have received it, and so it will be for you. 
And when you stand davening, grant selicha (forgiveness) if something you hold against someone, in order that your Avinu sh'ba'Shomayim may grant you selicha for your peyshaim (transgressions).  
But if you do not give mechila (forgiveness), neither will your chattaim receive selicha (forgiveness) from your Av sh'ba'Shomayim. 
And again they come into Yerushalayim. And in the Beis Hamikdash, when Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was walking about, the Rashei Hakohanim (the Chief Priests) and the Sofrim (Scribes) and the Zekenim come to him. 
And they were saying to him, By what kind of samchut do you do these things? Or who gave to you this samchut that you may do these things? 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, I will ask you one dvar, and you answer me and I will tell you by what kind of samchut I do these things: 
The tevilah of teshuva of Yochanan — was it from Shomayim or from Bnei Adam? Answer me! 
And they were discussing among themselves, saying, If we say, from Shomayim, he will say, Why then did you not believe him? 
But if we say from Bnei Adam, they were afraid of the multitude, for everyone was considering Yochanan beemes (in truth) a navi. 
And in reply to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, they say, We do not have daas. And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Neither will I tell you by what kind of samchut I do these things. 
