SHMUEL BAIS.
Chapter 7.
And it came to pass, when HaMelech sat in his Bais, and Hashem had given him rest round about from all his oyevim; 
That HaMelech said unto Natan HaNavi, See now, I dwell in a Bais of cedar, but the Aron HaElohim dwelleth within the curtain. 
And Natan said to HaMelech, Go, do all that is in thine lev; for Hashem is with thee. 
And it came to pass that lailah, that the Devar Hashem came unto Natan, saying, 
Go and tell Avdi Dovid, Thus saith Hashem, Shalt thou build Me a Bais for Me to dwell in? 
Whereas I have not dwelt in any Bais since the time that I brought up the Bnei Yisroel out of Mitzrayim, even to this day, but have walked in an Ohel and in a Mishkan. 
In all the places wherein I have walked with kol Bnei Yisroel spoke I a word with any of the Shivtei Yisroel, whom I commanded, to shepherd My people Yisroel, saying, Why build ye not Me a Bais of cedar? 
Now therefore so shalt thou say unto Avdi Dovid, Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os, I took thee from the sheepfold, from following the tzon, to be Nagid over My people, over Yisroel: 
And I was with thee whithersoever thou didst go, and have cut off all thine oyevim out of thy sight, and have made thee a shem gadol, like unto the shem of the Gedolim that are on ha'aretz. 
Moreover I will appoint makom (place, home) for My people Yisroel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in a place of their own, and be disturbed no more; neither shall the bnei avlah (children of wickedness) afflict them any more, as in former times, 
Even since the time that I commanded Shofetim to be over My people Yisroel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine oyevim. Also Hashem declareth to thee that He will make thee a Bais. 
And when thy yamim be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy Avot, I will raise up thy Zera after thee, which shall proceed out of thy loins, and I will establish his Mamlachah (Kingdom). 
He shall build a Bais for My Shem, and I will establish the kisse (throne) of his Mamlachah ad olam. 
I will be his Av, and he shall be My Ben. If he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the shevet anashim, and with the floggings of bnei adam; 
But My chesed shall not be taken away from him, as I took it from Sha'ul, whom I removed from before thee. 
And thine Bais and thy Mamlachah shall be established ad olam before thee; thy kisse (throne) shall be established ad olam (forever). 
According to all these devarim, and according to all this chizzayon (revelation), so did Natan speak unto Dovid. 
Then went HaMelech Dovid in, and sat before Hashem, and he said, Who am I, Adonoi Hashem? And what is my Bais, that Thou hast brought me this far? 
And as if this were a small thing in Thy sight, Adonoi Hashem, Thou hast spoken also the future of Bais Avdecha. And is this fitting for haAdam, Adonoi Hashem? 
And what can Dovid say more unto Thee? For Thou, Adonoi Hashem, knowest Avdecha. 
For the sake of Thy word, and according to Thine own lev, hast Thou done all this gedullah (great thing), and made it known to Avdecha. 
Wherefore Thou art great, Adonoi Hashem; for there is none like Thee, neither is there any Elohim but Thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 
And what Goy echad in ha'aretz is like Thy people, even like Yisroel, whom Elohim went to redeem for an Am for Himself, and to make Him a Shem, and to do for Thee hagedullah (the great thing) and nora'ot, for Thy land, before Thy people, which Thou redeemedst to Thee, from Mitzrayim, from the Goyim and their g-ds? 
For Thou hast confirmed to Thyself Thy people Yisroel to be an Am unto Thee ad olam; and Thou, Hashem, art become their Elohim. 
And now, Hashem Elohim, the davar (word, promise) that Thou hast spoken concerning Avdecha, and concerning his Bais, establish it ad olam, and do just as Thou hast said. 
And let Thy Shem be magnified ad olam, saying, Hashem Tzivos is Elohim over Yisroel; and let the Bais of Avdecha Dovid be established before Thee. 
For Thou, Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel, hast revealed to ozen Avdecha, saying, I will build thee a Bais; therefore hath Avdecha found in his lev to pray this tefillah unto Thee. 
And now, Adonoi Hashem Atah hu HaElohim, and Thy devarim are emes, and Thou hast promised hatovah hazot unto Avdecha; 
Therefore now let it please Thee to bless the Bais Avdecha, that it may continue l'olam before Thee; for Thou, Adonoi Hashem, hast spoken it; and with Thy brocha let the Bais Avdecha be blessed l'olam. 
