DIVREY HAYAMIM BAIS.
Chapter 17.
And Yehoshaphat bno reigned in his place, and strengthened himself against Yisroel. 
And he placed troops in all the fortified cities of Yehudah, and set netzivim (garrisons) in Eretz Yehudah, and in the towns of Ephrayim, which Asa Aviv had captured. 
And Hashem was with Yehoshaphat, because he walked in the darkhei Dovid Aviv harishonim, and sought not unto Ba'alim; 
But sought Hashem Elohei Aviv, and walked in His mitzvot, and not after the ma'asei Yisroel. 
Therefore Hashem established the Mamlachah in his yad; and all Yehudah brought to Yehoshaphat minchah; and he had osher and kavod in abundance. 
And his lev was elevated in the darkhei Hashem; moreover he removed the high places and Asherim from Yehudah. 
Also in the third year of his reign he sent to his sarim (officials), even to Ben-Chayil, and to Ovadyah, and to Zecharyah, and to Netanel, and to Michayah, to teach in the cities of Yehudah. 
And with them he sent Levi'im, even Shema'yahu, and Netanyahu, and Zevadyahu, and Asahel, and Shemiramot, and Yehonatan, and Adoniyahu, and Toviyahu, and Tov Adoniyah, Levi'im; and with them Elishama and Yehoram, Kohanim. 
And they taught in Yehudah, and had with them the Sefer Torat Hashem, and went about throughout all the cities of Yehudah, and taught HaAm. 
And the Pachad Hashem fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were surrounding Yehudah, so that they made no war against Yehoshaphat. 
Also some of the Pelishtim (Philistines) brought Yehoshaphat minchah, and kesef massa (tribute); and the Arabs brought him tzon, seven thousand seven hundred rams, and seven thousand seven hundred goats. 
And Yehoshaphat grew great exceedingly; and he built in Yehudah fortresses and storage cities. 
And he had melachah rabbah in the cities of Yehudah; and the anshei milchamah, gibborei chayil were in Yerushalayim. 
And these are the pekuddah (enrollment numbers) of them according to the Bais Avoteihem: of Yehudah, the sarei alafim; Adnah HaSar, and with him gibborei chayil three hundred elef. 
And next to him was Yehochanan HaSar, and with him two hundred and fourscore elef. 
And next to him was Amasyah ben Zichri, who volunteered unto Hashem, and with him two hundred elef gibbor chayil. 
And from Binyamin, Elyada a gibbor chayil, and with him armed men with keshet and mogen two hundred elef. 
And next to him was Yehozavad, and with him a hundred and fourscore elef battle-ready. 
These waited on HaMelech, beside those whom HaMelech put in the fortified cities throughout all Yehudah. 
