GEVUROT MEYRUACH HAKODESH.
Chapter 9.
Now Sha'ul, still breathing a threat even of retzach (murder) keneged (against) the talmidim of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu, having approached the Kohen Gadol, 
Requested from him iggrot of reshus (authorization) to the shuls of Damascus, that if someone he should find being mishtatef (involved) in HaDerech, both anashim and nashim, he may lead them bound to Yerushalayim. 
Now as he goes, it came about that he comes near Damascus, and suddenly shone around him an Ohr (Light) from Shomayim; 
And he fell on the ground, and heard a kol (voice), saying to him, Sha'ul, Sha'ul, why are you persecuting me? 
And he said, Who are you, Adoni? And he said, I am Yehoshua/Yeshua upon whom you bring redifah. 
But get up and enter into the city, and it shall be told to you what it is necessary for you to do. 
And the anashim traveling with Rav Sha'ul had stood speechless, hearing the sound but seeing no one. 
And Rav Sha'ul got up from the ground, and, though his eyes were open, he was seeing nothing. And leading him by the hand, they brought him into Damascus. 
And he was shloshah yamim not seeing and neither did he eat nor drink. 
Now there was a certain talmid in Damascus, by the name Chananyah, and Moshiach Adoneinu spoke to him in a chazon (vision), saying, Chananyah. And he said, Hinei, I am here, Adoni. 
And Moshiach Adoneinu said to him, Get up and go to the rekhov (street) being called Yashar (Straight) and seek in the bais of Yehudah an ish by name Sha'ul from Tarsus. For, hinei, he is davening, 
And Sha'ul has seen in a chazon (vision) an ish by the name Chananyah come in and place his hands upon him that he may see again. 
And Chananyah answered, Adoni, I heard from many about this man, how many ra'ot (evil things) he did to your Kedoshim in Yerushalayim. 
And here he has samchut (authority) from the Rashei Kohanim to bind all the ones davening b'Shem of you. 
But Moshiach Adoneinu said to him, Go, for this one is a keli nivchar (chosen vessel) of mine to carry Shmi before both Goyim and melachim (kings) and the Bnei Yisroel. 
For I will show him how much it is necessary for him to undergo yissurim (sufferings) on behalf of Shmi (my Name). 
And Chananyah departed and entered into the bais, and having placed his hands upon Rav Sha'ul, he said, Ach b'Moshiach Sha'ul, Moshiach HaAdon has sent me. I'm referring to Yehoshua, the one who appeared to you on the derech by which you were coming. He sent me that you may see again and may be filled with the Ruach Hakodesh. 
And immediately there fell from his eyes something like scales, and Rav Sha'ul saw again, and, having got up, he submitted to Moshiachʼs tevilah of teshuva. 
And having received okhel (food), Rav Sha'ul regained strength. Now he was with the talmidim in Damascus several yamim. 
And immediately in the shuls Rav Sha'ul was preaching Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua, saying, He is the Ben HaElohim. 
And all the ones listening were astonished, and they were saying, Is this not the one making havoc in Yerushalayim among the ones invoking this shem and was not his tachlis (purpose) in coming here to bind them over before the Rashei Hakohanim? 
But Rav Sha'ul even more was being strengthened and was confounding the unbelieving Yehudim dwelling in Damascus, by proving that this Yehoshua is the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
But when yamim rabbim were completed, the ones of the Yehudim who were unbelieving plotted to kill him. 
But the mezimma (evil design, intrigue) of their kesher (plot) became known to Rav Sha'ul. And they were also watching the she'arim (gates) both yomam valailah that they might kill him, 
but Moshiachʼs talmidim had taken him b'lailah and they let him down through an opening in the wall, having lowered him in a large basket. 
And having arrived in Yerushalayim, Rav Sha'ul was trying to associate with the Moshiachʼs talmidim, and they were all afraid of him, not believing that he is a talmid. 
But Bar-Nabba, having taken hold of him, brought him to Moshiachʼs Shluchim and told them how on the derech he saw Moshiach Adoneinu, who had spoken to Rav Sha'ul, and how in Damascus Rav Sha'ul spoke with ometz lev (boldness) b'Shem Yehoshua. 
And Rav Sha'ul was with them, going in and coming out in Yerushalayim, speaking boldly b'Shem Moshiach Adoneinu. 
And Rav Sha'ul was speaking and debating keneged (against) the Greek-speaking Yehudim; but they were attempting to kill him. 
But having learned of this, the Achim b'Moshiach brought Rav Sha'ul down to Caesarea and sent him away to Tarsus. 
Then Moshiachʼs Kehillah throughout all of Yehudah and the Galil and Shomron had shalom and was increasing, being built up, and going on in the yir'at Shomayim and in the yir'at Moshiach Adoneinu and beNechamat HaRuach Hakodesh. 
Now it came about that Kefa, passing through all the parts of Eretz Yisrael, came down also to Moshiachʼs kedoshim dwelling in Lud. 
And there Kefa found a certain ish by the name Aeneas who had been bedridden shmoneh shanim, for he was paralyzed. 
And Kefa said to him, Aeneas, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua make you whole. Get up and make your bed! And immediately he got up. 
And everyone dwelling in Lud and Sharon saw him, and they turned to Adoneinu. 
Now in Yafo there was a certain talmidah by the name Tavitha, which, being translated, means gazelle. This one was abounding in ma'asim tovim and in giving tzedakah, which she was always doing. 
And it came about in yamim hahem that this one, having become ill, passed away. When the women had washed her body, they laid it in the aliyyah. 
And since Lud was near to Yafo, Moshiachʼs talmidim, having heard that Kefa was there, sent shnei anashim to him, summoning Kefa that he not delay in coming to them. 
Kefa, getting up, went with them. And when he arrived, they brought him up into the aliyyah (upper story room), and all the almanot stood beside him, weeping and showing the tunics and garments that Tavitha made while she was with them. 
But Kefa, having put everyone outside, and having fallen down, davened. And when he turned to the nifteret (deceased), he said, Tavitha, get up! And she opened her eynayim and, having seen Kefa, she sat up. 
And having given his hand to her, he made her to stand up alive again; and, having called the Moshiachʼs Kedoshim and the almanot, Kefa presented her lebedik (alive) before them. 
It became known throughout all Yafo, and rabbim (many) had emunah in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu. 
And it came about that Kefa remained in Yafo yamim rabbim with a certain Shim'on, a tanner. 
