IYOV.
Chapter 36.
Elihu also proceeded, and said, 
Bear with me a little, and I will show thee that I have yet to speak on behalf of Eloah. 
I will get my da'as from afar, and will ascribe tzedek to my Maker. 
For truly my words shall not be sheker; one that is tamim (complete) in da'as is among thee. 
See, El is kabir (mighty), and despiseth not any; He is kabir in ko'ach lev (strength of understanding). 
He preserveth not the life of the rasha, but giveth mishpat to the aniyim. 
He withdraweth not His eyes from the tzaddik, but with melachim are they on the kisse; yea, He doth establish them lanetzach (forever), and they are exalted. 
And if they be bound in chains, and be held fast in chevlei oni (cords of affliction), 
Then He showeth them their work, and their peysha'im that they have done arrogantly. 
He openeth also their ozen to musar (discipline), and commandeth that they make teshuvah and turn from evil. 
If they obey and serve Him, they shall spend their yamim in tov (prosperity), and their shanim in contentment. 
But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without da'as. 
But the chanefei lev (irreligious in heart, hypocrites) incur wrath; they do not cry for help when He bindeth them. 
They die in youth, their nefesh among the kedeshim (cult male prostitutes, youthful lusts). 
He delivereth the oni in his affliction, and openeth their ears in oppression. 
Even so would He have removed thee out of the tzar (distress) into a rachav (broad place), free from restriction, to the comfort of thy shulchan, full of choice food. 
But thou hast been fixated on the din of the rasha; din and mishpat take hold on thee. 
Because there is chemah, beware lest He take thee away with His stroke; then a rav kopher (great ransom) cannot deliver thee. 
Will He esteem thy riches? No, not zahav, nor all the forces of ko'ach. 
Desire not halailah (the night), when people are cut off in their place. 
Take heed, regard not iniquity; for this hast thou chosen rather than oni. 
See, El exalted by His ko'ach. Who is a moreh (teacher) like Him? 
Who hath enjoined Him His derech? Or who can say, Thou hast done wrong? 
Remember that thou must extol His work, of which anashim have sung praises. 
Kol adam has seen it; enosh beholds it afar off. 
See, El is great, and we know Him not, neither can the mispar of His shanim be searched out. 
For He draws up the drops of mayim; He distills His mist as matar; 
Which the clouds do drop and distill upon adam abundantly. 
Also can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, or the thunderings of His sukkah? 
See, He spreadeth His ohr upon it, and covereth the depths of the yam. 
For by them governeth He the amim (nations); He giveth okhel in abundance. 
His hands He covers with the ohr (lightning), and commandeth it to strike the mark. 
His noise announceth Him, the cattle even that He is approaching. 
