1 Corinthians.
Chapter 6.
Does anyone of you having a dispute with an Ach b'Moshiach dare to be judged before the resha'im (unrighteous, evildoers) and not before the Bet Din of the Kedoshim? 
Or do you not have da'as that the Kedoshim will sit in mishpat over the Olam Hazeh? And if the Olam Hazeh is to be judged by you, are you incompetent dayanim to try the smallest cases? 
Do you lack da'as that the malachim will come before our Bet Din? Not to mention the things of Olam Hazeh! 
If, then, you have cases concerning matters of the Olam Hazeh, how could you appoint as your Bet Din dayanim men who have no standing in the kehillah? 
I speak to your bushah (shame). Is there not among you even one chacham (wise man) who will be able to sit in mishpat between his Achim b'Moshiach? 
But an Ach b'Moshiach takes another Ach b'Moshiach to court, and this before the courtroom of Apikorosim (Unbelievers)? 
Already, therefore, it is a total defeat for you, that you have lawsuits with one another. Why not rather suffer wrong? Why not rather be cheated? 
But you yourselves do wrong and practice hona'ah (cheating), and this to your Achim b'Moshiach. 
Or do you not have da'as that the resha'im (unrighteous ones) will not inherit the Malchut Hashem? Do not be deceived! Neither zannayim (fornicators), nor ovdei elilim (idolaters), nor mena'afim (adulterers), nor effeminate call boys nor homosexuals, 
Nor ganavim (thieves), nor kamtzanim (misers), nor shikkorim (drunkards), nor megadefim (revilers), nor the ones doing hona'ah (swindling) — none of these will inherit the Malchut Hashem. 
And some of you were these things. But you were washed and made tehorim (clean), you were made to be Am Kadosh, you were made to be yitzdak im Hashem in the name of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua Adoneinu and in the Ruach Hakodesh of Eloheinu. 
“All things to me are proper!” But not all things are beneficial. “All things to me are proper!” But I will not be mastered by anything. 
“Okhel (food) for the stomach and the stomach for okhel, but Hashem will destroy both one and the other;” but the body is not for zenut but for Hashem, and Hashem for the body. 
And Hashem brought about the Techiyah from HaMesim for Moshiach Adoneinu and will also bring about the Techiyas HaMesim for us through His gevurah (power). 
Do you not have da'as that your gufot (bodies) are evarim (members, limbs) of Moshiach? Should I then take the evarim (members) of Moshiach and make them evarim (members) of a zonah (prostitute)? Chas v'Shalom! (G-d forbid!) 
Or do you not have da'as that of the one joining himself to a zonah, that V'HAYU L'VASAR ECHAD (And they will be as one flesh)? 
But the one with deveykus(cleaving, attachment) to Hashem has achdus (union) in the Ruach Hakodesh with Elohim. 
Flee zenut! “Every chet is outside the body,” you say. But the one guilty of zenut commits chet against the body itself. 
Or have you no da'as that your body is a Heikhal Hashem of the Ruach Hakodesh in you, whom you have from Hashem, and you are not your own? 
For the Geulah redemption of you from the Golus of Chet was purchased with a price; therefore, bring kavod to Hashem with your gufot. 
