LUKAS.
Chapter 11.
And it came about while he was in a certain place davening that, when he concluded, a certain one of his talmidim said to him, Adoneinu, teach us to daven, just as also Yochanan taught his talmidim. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, When you daven, say, Avinu, yitkadash shmecha (hallowed be Thy Name). Tavo malchutechah (Thy kingdom come). 
Es lechem chukeinu ten lanu yom yom (Give us day by day the bread we need). 
U slach lanu es chovoteinu (And forgive us our debts, sins) ki solechim gam anachnu lekhol hachayav lanu (for also we ourselves are forgiving all that are the debtor to us) val tevieinu lidei nisayon (And lead us not into temptation). 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Who among you will have a chaver and will come to him at chatzot halailah (midnight), and say to him, Chaver, lend me shalosh kikrot (loaves); 
Because a chaver of mine has come from a journey to me and I have nothing to set before him; 
And from inside he shall reply, saying, Do not bother me; the delet has already been shut, and my yeladim and I are already in bed; I cannot get up and give to you anything. 
I say to you, even if he will not get up and give him anything, because he is his chaver, at least because of his keseder (constantly) persistent importunity he will get up and give to him as much as he needs. 
And I tell you when you daven, ask, and it shall be given to you; seek and you shall find; knock and it shall be opened to you. 
For everyone asking receives; and he who is seeking, finds; and to the one knocking, it shall be opened. 
And what Abba among you is there who, if his ben asks for a dag (fish), instead of a dag (fish) will give to him a nachash (snake)? 
Or if the ben will ask for a beytzah (egg), will the av give him an akrav (scorpion)? 
If, therefore, you, though you are ra'im (evil ones), have da'as (knowledge) of how to give matanot tovot (good gifts) to your yeladim, how much more will HaAv sh'ba'Shomayim give the Ruach Hakodesh to the ones asking him. 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach was casting out a shed from an ish illem (mute man). And it came to pass when the shed had come out, the ish illem spoke, and the multitudes were amazed. 
But some of them said, He casts out the shedim by Baal-zibbul Sar HaShedim. 
And others, to test him, were demanding of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach an ot (sign) from Shomayim. 
But Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach, having had daas of their machshavot (thoughts), said to them, Every Malchut divided against itself is laid waste; and a bais (household) divided against itself falls. 
And if HaSatan also was divided against himself, how shall Hasatanʼs Malchut (Kingdom) stand? Because you say by Baal-zibbul I cast out shedim. 
But if I by Baal-zibbul cast out the shedim, by whom do your banim cast them out? Oib azoi (consequently), they shall be your shofetim (judges). 
But, if I, by the finger of Hashem, cast out the shedim, then the Malchut Hashem has come upon you. 
When a Gibbor (Strong Man), fully armed, is shomer over his armon (palace), his possessions are left in shalom; 
But when someone stronger than he overpowers him, he takes away from him all his shiryon kaskasim (coat of scale armor) on which he had depended, and distributes his plunder. 
The one who is not with me is against me (anti-Moshiach); and he who does not gather with me, scatters. 
When the ruach hatameh (unclean spirit) goes out from the ben Adam, it goes through waterless places seeking a menuchah (resting place) and, not finding any, it says, I will return to my bais from where I came out. 
And when it comes, it finds the bais having been swept and put beseder. 
Then it goes and takes another sheva shedim more ra'ot (evil) than itself, and they enter it and dwell there; and the acharit (last) condition of that ish becomes worse than the reshit (first). 
And it came about while Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach was saying these shiurim, a certain isha in the multitude, having lifted up her voice, said to him, Ashrey is the womb having carried you and the breasts that nursed you. 
But Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said, Aderaba (to the contrary); ashrey are the ones hearing the dvar Hashem and being shomer mitzvot! 
And as the multitudes are gathering even more, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach began to say, HaDor HaZeh (this generation) is a Dor Rah! It is seeking an ot, and an ot will not be given to it except the Ot HaYonah (the Sign of Jonah). 
For just as Yonah became to the people of Nineveh an ot, so also the Bar Enosh will be an ot to HaDor HaZeh. 
The Queen of the South will be made to stand up alive at the Mishpat (Judgment) with the men of HaDor HaZeh and she will declare a gezar din (verdict) of harshaah (condemnation as guilty), because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the chochmah of Sh'lomo, and one greater than Sh'lomo is here. 
Men of Nineveh will stand up at the Mishpat (Yom HaDin) with HaDor HaZeh and will condemn it, for they made teshuva at the darshenen of Yonah, and one greater than Yonah is here. 
No one having lit a menorah puts it in a hidden place, nor under the measuring bucket, but on the shulchan, in order that the ones entering may see the ohr. 
The menorah of the basar is your ayin (eye). When your ayin is sound, then your entire basar is full of ohr. But when it is rah, then your basar is full of choshech. 
See to it, then, that the ohr in you is not choshech (darkness). 
If therefore, your whole basar is full of ohr and not having any part choshech, it will be all full of ohr as when the menorah with the ohr (light) shines on you. 
Now while he spoke, a Parush asks him that he might have betziat halechem (have a meal, breaking of bread) with him. And, having entered, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach reclined at tish. 
And the Parush, having seen this, was amazed that Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach did not first do netilat yadayim before the meal. 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu said to him, Now you Perushim wash the outside of the kos and the dish you clean, but the inside of you is full of gezel (robbery) and resha. 
Goilomim (Foolish people)! Did not the One having made the outside also make the inside? 
But as far as what is inside, give tzedakah, and everything is tahor to you. 
But oy to you, Perushim, because you give as ma'aser (tithe) the mint and the rue and every herb and you disregard the mishpat and the ahavah of Hashem. But these things it was necessary to do and those not to disregard. 
Oy to you Perushim! Because your ahavah is for the moshavot harishonim (first seats) in the shuls and the Birkat Shalom greetings in the market places. 
Woe to you, because you are like the unmarked kevarim (graves), and bnei Adam walk over them without having daas. 
And, in reply, one of the Baalei Torah says to him, Rabbi, by saying these things you insult us also. 
But Rebbe, Melech, HaMoshiach said, Also woe to you Baalei Torah, because you burden men with halachic loads difficult to carry, and you yourselves with so much as one of your fingers do not touch the loads. 
Woe to you, because you build the matsevot (tombstone monuments) for the Kivrei HaNeviim (the sepulchers of the Prophets), but it was your avot who killed them. 
Therefore, you are edim (witnesses) and in agreement with the deeds of your avot, because they do the killing of nevi'im part and you do the providing of the matsevot part. 
Therefore, also the Chochmah of Hashem said, I will send to them Nevi'im and Shlichim, some of whom they will kill and persecute, 
That the Dahm of all the Neviim that has been poured out from the hivvased haOlam (foundation of the world) may be charged to HaDor HaZeh, 
From the blood of Hevel (Abel) to the blood of Zecharyah who was killed al Kiddush ha-Shem between the Mizbe'ach and the Beis Hashem; ken, I tell you, it will be required of HaDor HaZeh. 
Woe to you Ba'alei Torah, because you took the mafteach of da'as; you yourselves did not enter in; and the ones entering in you hindered. 
And when he went from there, the Sofrim and the Perushim began to be terribly hostile and to hock (pose questions one right after the other) Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and to subject him to a wide ranging cross-examination, 
Plotting to catch him in something from his mouth. 
