SHEMOT.
Chapter 14.
Then Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, that they turn back and encamp before Pi-Hachirot, between Migdol and the yam, in front of Ba'al-Tzephon; opposite it shall ye encamp by the yam. 
For Pharaoh will think of the Bnei Yisroel, They are entangled in the land, the midbar hath shut them in. 
And I will harden lev Pharaoh, that he shall pursue after them; and I will be glorified over Pharaoh, and upon all his army; so that the Egyptians may have da'as that I am Hashem. And they did accordingly. 
And it was told the melech Mitzrayim that HaAm had fled; and the lev Pharaoh and of his avadim was turned against HaAm, and they said, Why have we done this, that we have let Yisroel go from slaving for us? 
And he made ready his merkavah, and took his army with him; 
And he took six hundred select chariots, and all the chariots of Mitzrayim, and commanders over every one of them. 
And Hashem hardened the lev Pharaoh Melech Mitzrayim, so that he pursued after the Bnei Yisroel; and the Bnei Yisroel went out with a high hand. 
But the Mitzrayim pursued after them, all the susim and chariots of Pharaoh, and his parash, and his army, and overtook them encamping by the yam, by Pi-Hachirot, in front of Ba'al-Tzephon. 
And when Pharaoh drew near, the Bnei Yisroel lifted up their eyes, and, hinei, the Egyptians marched after them; and they were very terrified; and the Bnei Yisroel cried out unto Hashem. 
And they said unto Moshe, Because there were no kevarim in Mitzrayim, hast thou taken us away to die in the midbar? What hast thou done to us, in bringing us forth out of Mitzrayim? 
Is not this the very thing that we did tell thee in Mitzrayim, saying, Let us alone, that we may slave for the Egyptians? For it had been better for us to slave for the Egyptians, than that we should die in the midbar. 
And Moshe said unto HaAm, Fear ye not, stand still, and see the Yeshu'at Hashem, which He will bring to you today; for the Egyptians whom ye have seen today, ye shall see them again no more ad olam. 
Hashem shall fight for you, and ye shall keep still. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Why criest thou unto Me? Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, so that they move on; 
But lift thou up thy staff, and stretch out thine yad over the yam, and divide it; and the Bnei Yisroel shall go on yabashah (dry land)  through the midst of the yam. 
And I, hineni, I will harden the lev Mitzrayim, and they shall go after them; and I will get Me glory over Pharaoh, and over all his army, over his chariots, and upon his parash (horsemen). 
And the Egyptians shall know that I am Hashem, when I have gotten Me glory over Pharaoh, over his chariots, and over his parash. 
And the Malach HaElohim, which goes in front of the Machaneh Yisroel, moved and went behind them; and the pillar of cloud moved from before their face, and stood behind them; 
And it came between the machaneh Mitzrayim and the Machaneh Yisroel; there was the anan bringing choshech to the Egyptians, but bringing light by night to Yisroel; so that none came near the other, kol halailah. 
Then Moshe stretched out his yad over the yam; and Hashem caused the yam to go back by a strong east wind all that night, so that the yam was made dry land, and the mayim were divided. 
And the Bnei Yisroel then went into the middle of the yam upon the yabashah (dry land); and the mayim were a chomah (wall) unto them on their right, and on their left. 
And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them into the middle of the yam, even kol sus Pharaoh, his chariots, and his parash. 
So it came to pass, that when came the watch of the boker, Hashem looked down on the machaneh Mitzrayim through the ammud eish (pillar of fire) and of the anan, and caused confusion over the machaneh Mitzrayim, 
And turned awry their chariot wheels, that they drove them with difficulty; so that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the presence of Yisroel; because Hashem fighteth for them against the Egyptians. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Stretch out thine yad over the yam, that the mayim may come again upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their parash. 
And Moshe stretched forth his yad over the yam, and the yam rushed back to its place as dawn of the boker appeared; and the Egyptians tried to flee away from meeting it; but Hashem swept the Egyptians into the middle of the yam. 
And the mayim rushed back, and covered the chariots, and the parashim, and all the army of Pharaoh that came into the yam after them; there remained as survivors not so much as one of them. 
But the Bnei Yisroel walked upon yabashah through the yam; and the mayim were a chomah unto them on their right, and on their left. 
Thus Hashem saved Yisroel yom hahu out of the hand of Mitzrayim; and Yisroel saw the Egyptians dead upon the seashore. 
And Yisroel saw the yad hagedolah which Hashem did upon the Egyptians; and HaAm feared Hashem, and put their trust in Hashem, and in His eved Moshe. 
