Galatians.
Chapter 4.
Now I say this: for however much time as the yoresh (heir) has not attained his majority (the state or time of being of full legal age, or his religious majority, his Bar Mitzvah), he differs nothing from an eved, though being Ba'al Bayit of all the nachalah (inheritance). 
And he is under shomrim (guardians) and omnot (governesses) until the time previously appointed by the Ba'al Bayit. 
So also we, when we were immature, had been enslaved under the yesodot (rudiments) of the Olam Hazeh. 
But when the fullness of time had come, Hashem sent forth his Zun fun der Oybershter, born of an isha, born under Gezetz (Law), 
That Moshiach might bring the Geulah (Redemption) to the ones under Gezetz (Law), that we might receive the Ma'amad HaBanim (the standing as sons), the bechirah adoption. 
And because you are banim, Hashem sent forth the Ruach of His Zun fun der Oybershter into your levavot, crying “Abba, Avinu!” 
So you are no longer an eved but a ben; and if a ben, also a yoresh through Hashem. 
But, formerly, when you did not have da'as (knowledge) of Hashem, you were avadim serving that which is by nature not HaEl Ha'Amiti (the true G-d). 
But, now, having known Hashem, or rather having been known by Hashem, how is it that you are returning to the weak and beggarly yesodot (rudiments) of the Olam Hazeh to which again you want to renew your service as avadim? 
You observe yamim (days) and chodashim (months, new moons) and mo'adim (fixed times, festivals) and shanim. 
I fear for you, lest somehow efsher (perhaps) I have labored for you lashav (in vain). 
Become as I am, because I also became as you are, Achim B'Moshiach. I implore you. You did me no wrong. 
And you know that it was due to chulshat habasar (weakness of the flesh, sickness) that I first preached the Besuras HaGeulah to you, 
and your nisayon (trial) in my basar you did not despise nor did you loathe, but as a malach Hashem you received me, as Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua himself. 
Where then is your birkat Shomayim? For I testify to you that if possible, having torn out your eynayeem (eyes), you would have made a mattanah (gift) of them to me. 
So, then, have I become your oyev (enemy) by telling you HaEmes? 
They (the mohalim haGoyim) are zealously courting you, but not in a good way; rather, they desire to cut you off and shut you out, in order that you may be zealous for them. 
Now it is tov ma'od to be zealous in a good thing all the time, and not only during my presence with you. 
My yeladim, for whom again I suffer chevlei leydah (birth pains) until Moshiach is formed in you, 
Would that I were present with you just now and could change my tone, because I am baffled by you. 
Tell me, you Goyim who wish to be under Gezetz, do you not possess “shema” hearing of the Torah? 
For the Torah says that Avraham Avinu had shnei banim (two sons), one of shifchah (the slave woman) and one of the gevirah. 
But the one of the slave woman has been born according to the basar, and the one of the free woman has been born through the havtachah (promise). 
Now these things can be taken derech mashal (figuratively); for these are two beritot(covenants), one from Mount Sinai bearing banim for avdut (slavery, bondage): this is Hagar. 
Now, Hagar is the Mount Sinai in Arabia; and corresponds to the Yerushalayim of the present, for she is in avdut with her banim. 
But the Yerushalayim above is a Bat Chorin (daughter of freedom), the Imma lechulanu (the Mother of us all). 
For it has been written, RANNI AKARAH LO YALADAH PITZCHI RINNAH V'TZAHALI LO CHALAH KI RABBIM BENEI SHOMEMAH MIB'NEI VE'ULAH (Sing, rejoice, O barren, the one not giving birth, break forth into song and shout for joy, the one not suffering birth pains; because more are the children of the desolate woman than the one having the husband). 
But you, Achim b'Moshiach, are Bnei HaHavtacha (Sons of the Promise), like Yitzchak. 
But just as at that time the one born according to the basar was bringing redifah (persecution) on the one born according to the Ruach HaKodesh, so it is now also. 
But what does the Kitvei HaKodesh say? “Cast out the slave woman and her son, for never will the son of the slave woman inherit with my son, the son of the free woman.” 
Therefore, Achim B'Moshiach, we are not Bnei “HAAMAH” (Sons of the Slave Woman) but Bnei HaKhofshi'yah (Sons of Lady Freedom, the Freedwoman). 
