AMOS.
Chapter 3.
Hear this word that Hashem hath spoken against you, O Bnei Yisroel, against the kol hamishpochoh which I brought up from Eretz Mitzrayim, saying: 
You only have I known of all the mishpechot ha'adamah: therefore I will punish you for kol avonotechem. 
Can shnayim walk together, except they be agreed? 
Will an aryeh roar in the thicket, when he hath no prey? Will a lion roar from his den, if he has taken nothing? 
Can a bird fall in a pach ha'aretz (trap on the ground), when his snare is not set? Can a pach spring up from ha'aretz without making a capture? 
Shall a shofar be blown in the city, and the people not be afraid? Shall there be disaster in a city, and Hashem hath not caused it? 
Surely Adonoi Hashem will do nothing, but He revealeth His sod (secret) unto His avadim hanevi'im. 
The aryeh hath roared, who will not fear? Adonoi Hashem hath spoken, who can but prophesy? 
Publish in the fortresses at Ashdod, and in the fortresses in Eretz Mitzrayim, and say: Assemble yourselves upon harei Shomron, and behold the great tumults in the midst thereof, and the oppression in the midst thereof. 
For they have no da'as to do right, saith Hashem, who store up chamas and shod in their fortresses. 
Therefore thus saith Adonoi Hashem: An adversary shall surround the land; and he shall bring down thy strongholds from thee, and thy fortresses shall be plundered. 
Thus saith Hashem: As the ro'eh taketh out of the mouth of the aryeh two legs, or a piece of an ozen; so shall the Bnei Yisroel be saved that dwell in Shomron — with the corner of a mittah (bed), and the edge of a couch. 
Hear ye, and testify against Bais Ya'akov, saith Adonoi Hashem, Elohei HaTzva'os, 
On the Yom that I visit her to punish the peysha'im of Yisroel, I will also visit to punish the mizbechot of Beit-El; and the horns of the mizbe'ach shall be cut off, and fall to ha'aretz. 
And I will strike the bais hachoref with the bais hakayitz; and the batim (houses) of ivory shall perish, and the batim rabbim (great houses) shall have an end, saith Hashem. 
