YECHEZKEL.
Chapter 35.
Moreover the Devar Hashem came unto me, saying: 
Ben adam, set thy face against Har Se'ir, and prophesy against it, 
And say unto it, Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Hineni, O Har Se'ir, I am against thee, and I will stretch out Mine yad against thee, and I will make thee a desolation and a waste. 
I will lay thy towns waste, and thou shalt be desolate, and thou shalt know that I am Hashem. 
Because thou hast had an eivat olam (ancient enmity), and delivered over the Bnei Yisroel to the power of the cherev at the time of their calamity, in the time of their avon ketz (final punishment). 
Therefore, as I live, saith Adonoi Hashem, I will turn thee unto dahm, and dahm shall pursue thee; since thou hast not hated dahm, even dahm shall pursue thee. 
Thus will I make Har Se'ir most desolate, and cut off from it him that goeth and him that cometh. 
And I will fill his harim with his slain; in thy geva'ot (hills), and in thy ge'ayot (valleys) and in all thy ravines, shall they fall that are slain with the cherev. 
I will make thee shimemot olam (eternal desolations), and thy towns shall not be inhabited; and ye shall know that I am Hashem. 
Because thou hast said, These two Goyim and these two countries shall be mine, and we will possess it; although Hashem was there; 
Therefore, as I live, saith Adonoi Hashem, I will even do according to thine anger, and according to thine kina (jealousy) which thou hast showed in thy hatred against them; and I will make Myself known among them, when I have judged thee. 
And thou shalt know that I am Hashem. I have heard all thy insults which thou hast spoken against the harim of Yisroel, saying, They are laid desolate, they are given to us to consume. 
Thus with your mouth ye have boasted of your greatness against Me, have multiplied your devarim against Me; I have heard them. 
Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: When kol ha'aretz (the whole earth) rejoiceth, I will make thee desolate. 
As thou didst rejoice at the nachalah of the Bais Yisroel, because it was desolate, so will I do unto thee; thou shalt be desolate, O Har Se'ir, and all Edom, even all of it; and they shall know that I am Hashem. 
