BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 2.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe and unto Aharon, saying, 
The Bnei Yisroel shall encamp, each man under his own degel (standard, banner), with the otot (ensigns) of the bais of their avot; some distance from it, around the Ohel Mo'ed must they encamp. 
And on the east side toward the rising of the sun shall they of the degel (standard, banner) of the machaneh of Yehudah encamp by their tzvaos: and Nachshon ben Amminadav shall be Nasi of the Bnei Yehudah. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered of them, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred. 
And those that do encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of Yissakhar; and Netanel ben Tzuar shall be Nasi of the Bnei Yissakhar. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred. 
Then the tribe of Zevulun; and Eliav ben Chelon shall be Nasi of the Bnei Zevulun. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and seven thousand and four hundred. 
All that were numbered in the machaneh of Yehudah were an hundred thousand and fourscore thousand and six thousand and four hundred, by their tzvaos. These shall set forth first. 
On the south side shall be the degel (standard, banner) of the machaneh of Reuven according to their tzvaos: and the Nasi of the Bnei Reuven shall be Elitzur ben Shede'ur. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered thereof, were forty and six thousand and five hundred. 
And those which encamp by him shall be the tribe of Shim'on; and the Nasi of the Bnei Shim'on shall be Shelumiel ben Tzurishaddai. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered of them, were fifty and nine thousand and three hundred. 
Then the tribe of Gad; and the Nasi of the Bnei Gad shall be Elyasaph ben Re'uel. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered of them, were forty and five thousand and six hundred and fifty. 
All that were numbered in the machaneh of Reuven were an hundred thousand and fifty and one thousand and four hundred and fifty, by their tzvaos. And they shall set forth in the second rank. 
Then the Ohel Mo'ed shall set forward with the machaneh of the Levi'im in the midst of the machaneh; as they encamp, so shall they set forward, every man in his place by their degel. 
On the west side shall be the degel of the machaneh of Ephrayim according to their tzvaos; and the Nasi of the Bnei Ephrayim shall be Elishama ben Ammihud. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered of them, were forty thousand and five hundred. 
And by him shall be the tribe of Menasheh; and the Nasi of the Bnei Menasheh shall be Gamli'el ben Pedahtzur. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered of them, were thirty and two thousand and two hundred. 
Then the tribe of Binyamin; and the Nasi of the Bnei Binyamin shall be Avidan ben Gideoni. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered of them, were thirty and five thousand and four hundred. 
All that were numbered of the machaneh of Ephrayim were an hundred thousand and eight thousand and an hundred, by their tzvaos. And they shall go forward in the third rank. 
The degel (standard, banner) of the machaneh of Dan shall be on the north side by their tzvaos; and the Nasi of the Bnei Dan shall be Achi'ezer ben Ammishaddai. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered of them, were threescore and two thousand and seven hundred. 
And those that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Asher; and the Nasi of the Bnei Asher shall be Pagiel ben Okhran. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered of them, were forty and one thousand and five hundred. 
Then the tribe of Naphtali; and the Nasi of the Bnei Naphtali shall be Achira ben Enan. 
And his tz'va (host), and those that were numbered of them, were fifty and three thousand and four hundred. 
All they that were numbered in the machaneh of Dan were an hundred thousand and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred. They shall break camp last with their degel (standard, banner). 
These are those which were numbered of the Bnei Yisroel by the bais of their avot; all those that were numbered of the machanot by their hosts were six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty. 
But the Levi'im were not counted with the Bnei Yisroel; as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And the Bnei Yisroel did according to all that Hashem commanded Moshe; so they encamped by the degelim (standards, banners) of them, and so they set forward, every one after their mishpekhot, according to the bais of their avot. 
