YESHAYAH.
Chapter 46.
Bel boweth down, Nevo stoopeth low, their atzabim (idols) were upon the beasts, and upon the behemah; your litters were heavy laden; they are a massa (burden) to the weary beast. 
They stoop, they bow down together; they could not save the massa (burden), but their own selves are gone into shevi (captivity, Golus). 
Pay heed unto Me, O Bais Ya'akov, and kol She'erit Bais Yisroel, who are borne by Me from birth, who are carried from the rechem (womb); 
And even to your ziknah (old age) I am He; and even to gray hair will I carry you; I have made, and I will carry; even I will carry, and will deliver you. 
Lemi (to whom) will ye compare Me, and make Me equal, and liken Me, that we may be comparable? 
They lavish zahav out of the bag, and weigh kesef on the scale, and hire a tzoref (goldsmith); and he maketh it El (G-d); they fall down, yes, they bow down in worship. 
They bear him upon the katef (shoulder), they carry him, and set him up in his place, and he standeth, from his makom shall he not move; yes, though one shall cry out unto him, yet can he not answer, nor save him out of his tzoros. 
Remember this, and stand firm; bring it again to lev (heart, mind), O ye poshe'im (rebelling, transgressing ones). 
Remember the rishonot (former things) me'olam (of old); for I am El (G-d), and there is not another; Elohim, and there is none like Me. 
Making known acharim (end-times things) from reshit (the beginning), and mikedem (from ancient times) the things that have not yet happened, saying: My etza (counsel, purpose, plan) shall stand, and I will do all My pleasure; 
Calling a bird of prey from the mizrach (east), the ish that executeth My etza (counsel, purpose, plan) from a far country; yes, I have spoken it, I will indeed bring it to pass; I have purposed it, I will also do it. 
Pay heed unto Me, ye abirei lev (stubborn of heart), that are far from tzedakah; 
I bring near My tzedakah; it shall not be far off, and My Teshuah (Salvation) shall not tarry; and I will place Teshuah in Tziyon for Yisroel Tife'arti (My Glory). 
