1 Kefa.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, als (since) Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach underwent bodily yissurim (sufferings), also you arm yourselves with the same way of thinking as Moshiach, because the one having suffered in the basar (flesh) has finished with chet (sin), 
So as no longer to live the remaining time of the Olam Hazeh in the basar, in the ta'avot Bnei Adam (lusts of men), but in the ratzon Hashem(will of G-d). 
For you have already spent sufficient time (time already gone by) in the Olam Hazeh participating in the ta'avot (lusts) of the Goyim, walking in darchei zimah (the ways of licentiousness), ta'avot (lusts), shichrut (drunkenness), orgiastic drinking mesibot (parties), and unlawful avodas elilim (idolatry). 
The Goyim think it strange that you are not running with them into the same mabbul (flood) of dissipation, and so they blaspheme and commit Chillul Hashem. 
But they will give an account to the One being ready to take his moshav (seat) as the Shofet of HaChayyim v'HaMesim (the Living and the Dead). 
For, indeed, this is the reason that the Besuras HaGeulah was preached to the mesim (dead ones), that, though judged in the basar according to men, they might live according to G-d in the spirit. 
The Ketz (End) of all things now has drawn near. Let your thinking be one of zililut da'as (sober-mindedness), therefore, and exercise kibush hayetzer (self-control), for the sake of your tefillos. 
Above all else, have fervent ahavah among yourselves, for AHAVAH KOL PEYSHA'IM T'CHASSEH(love covers all wrongs). 
Practice hachnosas orchim (hospitality) with one another without kevetching, 
Each one according as he received a mattanah (gift), as k'lei kodesh ministering to one another, mefakkechim tovim (good stewards, supervisors) of the varied Chen v'Chesed Hashem. 
If anyone speaks, let it be as though it were the oracles of Hashem; if anyone ministers, let it be as by the chozek (strength) which Hashem supplies, that in all things Hashem may be glorified through Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. Lo HaKavod V'HaOz L'Olemei Olamim. Omein (To whom be the glory and the power into the ages of the ages. Omein.) 
Chaverim, do not be surprised at the masah (trial) of eish (fire) among you coming for you for your testing, as though some strange thing were happening to you. 
But in so far as you share in the yissurim (sufferings) of Moshiach, in the Chevlei HaMoshiach, be glad that also in the Hisgalus (Revelation, Apocalypse) of his Kavod, you may have simcha and sasson. 
If you are reproached for the Shem HaMoshiach, ashrei (happy, blessed) are you, because the Ruach of Kavod and of Hashem rests upon you. 
Let not any of you suffer as a rotzeach (murderer) or a ganav (thief) or an oseh ra'ah (an evil doer) or as one who is mitarev (meddlesome). 
But if any one of you suffers as a ma'amin b'Moshiach (believer in Moshiach), let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify Hashem by this Name. 
Because the time has come to begin the Mishpat from the Beis Hashem; and if the Mishpat begins with us, what will be the toitzaa (outcome) of the ones without mishma'at (obedience) to the Besuras HaGeulah of Hashem? 
And if indeed the Tzaddik is saved with difficulty, where will appear the man without chasidus in Moshiach, the rashah and the choteh? 
Therefore, the ones undergoing sevalot (sufferings, yissurim) according to the ratzon Hashem, let them commit their nefashot to a trustworthy Yotzer (Creator) while they continue to do ma'asim tovim. 
