YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 39.
In the ninth year of Tzidkiyah Melech Yehudah, in the tenth month, came Nevukhadretzar Melech Bavel and all his army against Yerushalayim, and they besieged her. 
And in the eleventh year of Tzidkiyah, in the fourth month, the ninth yom of the month, the wall was broken through. 
And all the sarim (princes) of Melech Bavel came in, and sat in the Middle Gate, even Nergal Sar-Etzer, Samgar-Nevo, Sar-Sechim, Rav Saris, Nergal Sar-Etzer, Rav-Mag, with all the remaining of the sarim of Melech Bavel. 
And it came to pass, that when Tzidkiyah Melech Yehudah saw them, and all the anshei hamilchamah, then they fled, and went forth out of the Ir by lailah, by the derech of the Gan HaMelech, by the sha'ar between the two walls; and he headed toward the Aravah. 
But the army of the Kasdim pursued after them, and overtook Tzidkiyah in the plains of Yericho; and when they had captured him, they brought him up to Nevukhadretzar Melech Bavel to Rivlah in Eretz Chamat, where he pronounced mishpatim upon him. 
Then Melech Bavel slaughtered the Bnei Tzidkiyah in Rivlah before his eyes; also Melech Bavel slaughtered all the nobles of Yehudah. 
Moreover he put out Tzidkiyahʼs eyes, and bound him with bronze chains, to carry him to Babylon. 
And the Kasdim burned the Bais HaMelech, and the bais haAm, with eish, and broke down the chomot Yerushalayim. 
Then Nevuzaradan the captain of the imperial guard carried away into the Golus of Babylon the remnant of the people that remained in the city, and those that defected, that went over to him, with the rest of the people that remained. 
But Nevuzaradan the captain of the imperial guard left of the poor of the people, which had nothing, in Eretz Yehudah, and gave them kramim (vineyards) and fields at the same time. 
Now Nevukhadretzar Melech Bavel gave charge concerning Yirmeyah to Nevuzaradan the captain of the imperial guard, saying, 
Take him, and look well to him, and do him no harm; but do unto him even as he shall say unto thee. 
So Nevuzaradan the captain of the imperial guard sent, and Nevushazban, Rav-Saris, and Nergal Sar-Etzer, Rav-Mag, and all the officers of Melech Bavel; 
Even they sent, and took Yirmeyah out of the Khatzer (courtyard) of the Guard, and committed him unto Gedalyahu ben Achikam ben Shaphan, that he should carry him home; so he remained and dwelt among the people. 
Now the Devar Hashem came unto Yirmeyah, while he was confined in the Khatzer (court) of the Guard, saying, 
Go and tell Eved-Melech the Ethiopian (the one from Cush), saying, Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel: Hineni, I am bringing My words upon this city for ra'ah, and not for tovah; and they shall be accomplished in yom hahu before thee. 
But I will deliver thee in yom hahu, saith Hashem; and thou shalt not be given into the yad of the anashim of whom thou art afraid. 
For I will surely deliver thee, and thou shalt not fall by the cherev, but thy nefesh shall be unto thee for plunder; because thou hast put thy trust in Me, saith Hashem. 
