YESHAYAH.
Chapter 30.
Hoy (woe, doom) to the banim sorerim (obstinately rebellious children), saith Hashem, that take etzah, but not from Me; and in their plans weave a web, but not of My Ruach, that they may heap up chattat upon chattat; 
That walk to go down into Mitzrayim, and have not inquired at My mouth; to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh, and to take refuge in the tzel (shadow) of Mitzrayim! 
Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the refuge in the tzel of Mitzrayim your humiliation. 
For his sarim were at Tzoan, and his malachim (envoys) came to Chanes. 
They were all ashamed of a people that could not profit them, nor be an ezer (help) nor profit, but a shame, and also a cherpah. 
The massa (burden) of the beasts of the Negev: Into the eretz tzarah and anguish, from which come the lion and lioness, the viper and fiery flying serpent, they will carry their riches upon the shoulders of young donkeys, and their otzarot (treasures) upon the humps of gemalim (camels), to a people that shall not profit them. 
For the Mitzrayim shall be hevel (vain) in help, and to no purpose; therefore have I called her concerning this, Rahab Sits Idle. 
Now go, write it before them on a luach (tablet), and inscribe it on a sefer, that it may be for a yom acharon l'ad ad olam; 
That this is a rebellious people, deceitful banim, banim that will not hear the torah of Hashem; 
Which say to the seers, See not; and to the prophets, Prophesy not unto us nekhochot (right things), speak unto us chalakot (smooth things), prophesy machatallot (deceits, illusions); 
Get you off the derech, turn aside out of the orach (path), cause Kadosh Yisroel to cease from before us. 
Therefore thus saith Kadosh Yisroel, Because ye despise this davar, and trust in oshek (oppression) and waywardness, and rely thereon; 
Therefore this avon shall be to you as a cracking breach ready to fall, a bulge in a high chomah (wall), whose breaking cometh suddenly in an instant. 
And whose collapse is as the breaking of the clay jar of yotzerim (pottery makers) that is broken in pieces; it shall not be spared; so that there shall not be found among its fragments a shard to take eish from the fire, or to take mayim therewith out of the cistern. 
For thus saith Adonoi Hashem Kadosh Yisroel; In shuvah (returning) and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence shall be your gevurah (strength); but ye would not. 
But ye said, No; for we will flee upon sus; therefore shall ye flee; and, We will ride off upon the swift; therefore shall they that pursue you be swift. 
Elef echad shall flee at the threat of one; at the threat of five shall ye flee; until ye be left as a pole upon the top of the har, and as a nes (banner, flag) on a hill. 
And therefore will Hashem wait, that He may be gracious unto you, and therefore will He be exalted, that He may have rachamim upon you; for Hashem is Elohei Mishpat; Ashrei are all they that wait for Him. 
For a people shall dwell in Tziyon at Yerushalayim; thou shalt weep no more; He will be very gracious unto thee at the sound of thy cry; when He shall hear it, He will answer thee. 
And though Adonoi give you the lechem tzar (bread of trouble), and the mayim lachatz (waters of affliction), yet shall not thy morim (teachers) hide themselves any more, but thine eynayim shall see thy morim; 
And thine oznayim shall hear a davar behind thee, saying, This is the derech (road), walk ye on it, when ye turn to the right hand, and when ye turn to the left. 
Ye shall defile also the covering of thy peselim of kesef, and the clothing of thy massekhot (cast idols) of zahav; thou shalt throw them away like a menstruous cloth; thou shalt say unto it, Get thee from here. 
Then shall He send the matar of thy zera (seed), that thou shalt sow the adamah therewith; and lechem of the increase of the adamah, and it shall be rich and plenteous; in that day shall thy mikneh feed in broad pastures. 
The oxen likewise and the young donkeys that work the adamah shall eat mash fodder, which hath been spread with the winnowing fork and with the winnowing fan. 
And there shall be upon every high har, and upon every soaring hill, springs and streams of mayim in the day of the great slaughter, when the migdalim (towers) fall. 
Moreover the ohr of the levanah (moon) shall be as the ohr of the chamah (sun), and the ohr of the chamah shall be sevenfold, as the ohr of shivat hayamim (seven days), in the day that Hashem bindeth up the hurt of His people, and healeth the stroke of His wound. 
Hinei, the Shem of Hashem cometh from afar, burning is His anger, and heavy is His cloud; His safatayim (lips) are full of indignation, and His lashon is like a devouring eish; 
And His Ruach, like an overflowing stream, shall reach half-way to the tzavar (neck), to sift the Goyim with the sieve of shav (vanity, futility); and there shall be a misleading bridle bit in the jaws of the people. 
Ye shall have the shir (song), as in the night when the chag is set apart as kodesh; and simchat levav, as when one goeth with a chalil (flute) to come to the Har Hashem, to the Tzur Yisroel. 
And Hashem shall cause His glorious voice to be heard, and shall cause the lowering of His zero'a to be seen, with the indignation of His anger, and with the flame of a devouring eish, with smashing, and tempest, and even barad (stones of hail, hailstones). 
For through the voice of Hashem shall the Assyrian be crushed, which struck with a shevet (rod). 
And in every place where the matteh (rod) of punishment shall pass, which Hashem shall lay upon him, it shall be with tambourines and kinnorot; and in milchamot (battles) of brandishing will He fight against them. 
For Tophet is ordained of old; indeed, for Melech it is prepared. He hath made it deep and wide; the fire pit thereof is eish and much wood; the nishmat Hashem(breath of Hashem), like a stream of gofrit (brimstone, burning sulfur), doth kindle it. 
