YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 28.
And it came to pass the same year, in the beginning of the reign of Tzidkiyah Melech Yehudah, in the fourth year, and in the fifth month, that Chananyah ben Azzur HaNavi, who was from Giv'on, spoke unto me in the Beis Hashem, before the eyes of the kohanim and of kol haAm, saying, 
Thus says Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel, saying, I have broken the ol (yoke) of Melech Bavel. 
Within two years will I bring back into makon hazeh all the vessels of the Beis Hashem, that Nevukhadnetzar Melech Bavel took away from makon hazeh, and carried them to Babylon; 
And I will bring back to this place Yechanyah ben Y'hoyakim Melech Yehudah, with all of Yehudah of the Golus, that went into Babylon, saith Hashem; for I will break the ol (yoke) of Melech Bavel. 
Then Yirmeyah HaNavi said unto Chananyah HaNavi before the eyes of the kohanim, and before the eyes of kol HaAm that stood in the Beis Hashem, 
Even Yirmeyah HaNavi said, Omein; may Hashem do so; Hashem perform thy words which thou hast prophesied, to bring back the vessels of the Beis Hashem, and all that is carried away into the Golus, from Babylon into makom hazeh. 
Nevertheless shema now hadavar hazeh that I speak in thine ears, and in the ears of kol haAm; 
The nevi'im that have been before me and before thee of old prophesied both against many countries, and against mamlechot gedolot, of milchamah, of ra'ah, of dever. 
The navi which prophesieth of shalom, when the devar of the navi shall come to pass, then shall the navi be recognized, that Hashem hath truly sent him. 
Then Chananyah HaNavi took the yoke from off the neck of Yirmeyah HaNavi and broke it. 
And Chananyah spoke before the eyes of kol haAm, saying, Thus saith Hashem; Even so will I break the yoke of Nevukhadnetzar Melech Bavel from the neck of kol HaGoyim within the space of two years. And Yirmeyah HaNavi went on his way. 
Then the Devar Hashem came unto Yirmeyah, after Chananyah HaNavi had broken the yoke from off the neck of Yirmeyah HaNavi, saying, 
Go and tell Chananyah, saying, Thus saith Hashem; Thou hast broken the motot etz (yokes, bars of wood); but thou shalt make for them motot barzel (yokes of iron). 
For thus saith Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel: I have put an ol barzel (yoke of iron) upon the neck of kol HaGoyim, that they may serve Nevukhadnetzar Melech Bavel; and they shall serve him; and I have given him the wild animals also. 
Then said Yirmeyah HaNavi unto Chananyah HaNavi, Shema nah, Chananyah; Hashem hath not sent thee; but thou makest HaAm HaZeh to trust in sheker (a lie). 
Therefore thus saith Hashem; Hineni, I will remove thee from off the face of ha'adamah; this year thou shalt die, because thou hast preached sarah (rebellion, apostasy, revolt, disobedience) against Hashem. 
So Chananyah HaNavi died the same year in the seventh month. 
