VAYIKRA.
Chapter 15.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe and to Aharon, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, and say unto them, When any ish hath a discharge from his basar, because of his discharge he is tamei. 
And this shall be his tumah (uncleanness) in his discharge: whether his basar run with his discharge, or his basar has stopped from his discharge, it is his tumah (uncleanness). 
Every bed, whereon he lieth that hath the discharge, is tamei; and everything, whereon he sitteth, shall be tamei. 
And whosoever toucheth his bed shall immerse his garments, and immerse himself in mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
And he that sitteth on any thing whereon he sat that hath the discharge shall immerse his garments, and immerse himself in mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
And he that toucheth the basar of him that hath the discharge shall immerse his garments, and immerse himself in mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
And if he that hath the discharge spit upon him that is tahor, then he shall immerse his garments, and immerse himself in mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
And whatsoever riding seat he rideth upon that hath the discharge shall be tamei. 
And whosoever toucheth anything that was under him shall be tamei until the erev; and he that picks up any of those things shall immerse his garments, and immerse himself in mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
And whomsoever he toucheth that hath the discharge, and hath not rinsed his hands in mayim, he shall immerse his garments, and immerse himself in mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
And the clay pottery, that he toucheth which hath the discharge, shall be broken; and every wooden vessel shall be rinsed in mayim. 
And when he that hath a discharge is made tahor of his discharge; then he shall number to himself seven days for his tohorah (cleansing), and immerse his garments, and immerse his basar in running mayim, and shall be tahor. 
And on the yom shemini he shall take to him two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and come before Hashem unto the entrance of the Ohel Mo'ed, and give them unto the kohen; 
And the kohen shall sacrifice them, the one for a chattat, and the other for an olah (burnt offering); and the kohen shall make kapporah for him before Hashem for his discharge. 
And if any ish, if his shikhvat zera (emission of semen) go out from him, then he shall immerse his entire body in mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
And every garment, and every skin, whereon is the shikhvat zera, shall be immersed with mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
The isha also with whom ish shall lie with shikhvat zera, they shall both immerse themselves in mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
And if an isha have a discharge, and her discharge in her body be dahm, she shall be in her state of niddah (state of menstrual separation) seven days; and whosoever toucheth her shall be tamei until the erev. 
And everything that she lieth upon in her niddah shall be tamei; everything also that she sitteth upon shall be tamei. 
And whosoever toucheth her bed shall immerse his garments, and immerse himself in mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
And whosoever toucheth anything that she sat upon shall immerse his garments, and immerse himself in mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
And if it be on her bed, or on any thing whereon she sitteth, when he toucheth it, he shall be tamei until the erev. 
And if any ish lie with her at all, and her niddah (menstrual flow) be upon him, he shall be tamei seven days; and all the bed whereon he lieth shall be tamei. 
And if an isha have a discharge of her dahm many days out of the time of her niddah, or if it run beyond the time of her niddah, all the days of the discharge of her tumah shall be as the days of her niddah; she shall be tamei. 
Every bed whereon she lieth all the days of her discharge shall be unto her as the bed of her niddah; and whatsoever she sitteth upon shall be tamei, as the tumah of her niddah. 
And whosoever toucheth those things shall be tamei, and shall immerse his garments, and immerse himself in mayim, and be tamei until the erev. 
But if she be tohorah of her discharge, then she shall count to herself seven days, and after that she shall be tohorah. 
And on the yom shemini she shall take unto her two turtle doves, or two young pigeons, and bring them unto the kohen, to the entrance of the Ohel Mo'ed. 
And the kohen shall sacrifice the one for a chattat, and the other for an olah (burnt offering); and the kohen shall make kapporah for her before Hashem for the discharge of her tumah. 
Thus shall ye separate the Bnei Yisroel from their tumah; that they die not in their tumah, when they defile My Mishkan that is among them. 
This is the torah of him that hath a discharge, and of him whose shikhvat zera goeth from him, and is made tamei therewith; 
And of her that suffers through her niddah, and of him that hath a discharge, of the zachar, and of the nekevah, and of him that lieth with her that is tameiah. 
