YESHAYAH.
Chapter 37.
And it came to pass, when HaMelech Chizkiyah heard it, that he tore his begadim, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the Beis Hashem. 
And he sent Elyakim, who was over the Bais, and Shevna the Sofer, and the Ziknei HaKohanim covered with sackcloth, unto HaNavi Yeshayah Ben Amotz. 
And they said unto him, Thus saith Chizkiyah, This yom is a yom tzarah, and of tokhechah, and of ne'atzah; for the banim are come to the mashber, and there is not ko'ach to bring forth. 
It may be Hashem Eloheicha will hear the words of Rav Shakeh, whom Melech Ashur adonav hath sent to ridicule the Elohim Chai, and will rebuke the devarim which Hashem Eloheicha hath heard; therefore lift up thy tefillah for the she'erit that are left surviving. 
So the avadim of HaMelech Chizkiyah came to Yeshayah. 
And Yeshayah said unto them, Thus shall ye say unto adoneichem, Thus saith Hashem, Be not afraid before the words that thou hast heard, wherewith the na'arei Melech Ashur have made gidduf (blasphemy) against Me. 
Hineni, I will put a ruach in him, when he shall hear a shemuah (report), and return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall by the cherev in his own land. 
So Rav Shakeh left Yerushalayim, and found Melech Ashur warring against Livnah; for he had heard that he was departed from Lakhish. 
And he heard concerning Tirhakah Melech Kush, He is come forth to make war with thee. And when he heard it, he sent malachim to Chizkiyah, saying, 
Thus shall ye speak to Chizkiyah Melech Yehudah, saying, Let not Eloheicha, in Whom thou trustest, deceive thee, saying, Yerushalayim shall not be given into the yad Melech Ashur. 
Hinei, thou hast heard what the melachim of Ashur have done to all lands by destroying them utterly; and shalt thou be saved? 
Have the elohei HaGoyim delivered them which my avot have destroyed, as Gozan, and Charan, and Retzeph, and the Bnei Eden which were in Telassar? 
Where is Melech Chamat, and Melech Arpad, and the Melech of the Ir of Sepharvayim, Hena, and Ivah? 
And Chizkiyah received the sefarim (letters) from the yad hamalachim, and read it; and Chizkiyah went up unto the Beis Hashem, and spread it before Hashem. 
And Chizkiyah davened unto Hashem, saying, 
Hashem Tzva'os, Elohei Yisroel, that dwellest between the keruvim, Thou art HaElohim, even Thou alone, of kol mamlechot ha'aretz; Thou hast made Shomayim and HaAretz. 
Incline Thine ear, Hashem, and hear; open Thine eyes, Hashem, and see; and hear all the words of Sancheriv, which he sent to insult the Elohim Chai. 
Truly, Hashem, the melachim of Ashur have laid waste all the countries and their lands, 
And have cast eloheihem into the eish; for they were no elohim, but the ma'aseh yedei adam, etz and even (stone); therefore they have destroyed them. 
Now therefore, Hashem Eloheinu, save us from his yad, that kol mamlechot ha'aretz may know that Thou art Hashem, even Thou only. 
Then Yeshayah Ben Amotz sent unto Chizkiyah, saying, Thus saith Hashem Elohei Yisroel, Whereas thou hast davened to Me against Sancheriv Melech Ashur; 
This is the davar which Hashem hath spoken concerning him; The Betulat Bat Tziyon, hath despised thee, and laughed thee to scorn; the Bat Yerushalayim hath shaken her head at thee. 
Whom hast thou insulted and made gidduf against? And against whom hast thou raised thy voice, and lifted up thine eyes marom? Even against Kadosh Yisroel. 
By thy avadim hast thou insulted Adonoi, and hast said, By the multitude of my chariots am I come up marom harim, to the heights of Levanon; and I will cut down the tall cedars thereof, and the choice pine trees thereof; and I will enter into its most remote height, and the ya'ar (forest) of its fruitful land. 
I have dug, and drunk mayim; and with the sole of my feet have I dried up all the streams of the besieged places. 
Hast thou not heard long ago, how I have done it; and of yemei kedem (days of old), that I have formed it? Now have I brought it to pass, that thou shouldest be to lay waste fortified cities into ruinous heaps. 
Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were dismayed and put to shame; they were as the esev of the sadeh, and as the green herb, as the khatzir (grass) on the gagot (rooftops) is sun-scorched before it is grown up. 
But I know thy sitting, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and thy rage against Me. 
Because thy rage against Me, and thy insolence, is come up into Mine ears, therefore will I put My hook in thy nose, and My bit in thy sfatayim (lips), and I will turn thee back by the derech by which thou camest. 
And this shall be HaOt unto thee, Ye shall eat this year such as groweth of itself; and the second year that which springeth from the same; and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant kramim (vineyards), and eat the fruit thereof. 
And the remnant that is escaped of the Bais Yehudah shall again take shoresh (root) downward, and bear pri upward; 
For out of Yerushalayim shall go forth She'erit (remnant) and they that escape out of Mount Tziyon; the zeal of Hashem Tzva'os shall accomplish this. 
Therefore thus saith Hashem concerning Melech Ashur, He shall not come into this city, nor shoot khetz (an arrow) there, nor come before it with mogen, nor cast a siege ramp against it. 
By the derech that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall not come into this city, saith Hashem. 
For I will defend this city to save it for Mine Own sake, and for the sake of Dovid Avdi. 
Then the Malach Hashem went forth, and struck down in the Machaneh Ashur a hundred and fourscore and five elef; and when they arose early in the boker, hinei, they were all pegarim mesim (dead corpses). 
So Sancheriv Melech Ashur departed, and went and returned, and dwelt in Nineveh. 
And it came to pass, as he was worshiping in the Bais Nisroch elohav, that Adramelech and Saretzer, his banim, cut him down with the cherev; they escaped into Eretz Ararat; Esar-Chaddon bno reigned in his place. 
