GEVUROT MEYRUACH HAKODESH.
Chapter 17.
Now having passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonika, where there was a shul. 
And as he did bekvius (regularly), Rav Sha'ul joined their minyan, and on shloshah Shabbatot, he gave them drashot from the Kitvei HaKodesh, 
Making a Messianic midrash (homiletical interpretation of the Scriptures) and giving the pshat (rationale) for the yissurim of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, that it was necessary for him to suffer and to stand up alive from the Mesim, saying, This one is the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, this Yehoshua whom I am proclaiming to you. 
And some of them were persuaded and were being mishtatef (join, become involved) in a chavurah with Rav Sha'ul and Sila, as did a large number of yirei Elohim (Yevanim) and not a few of the chashuve nashim. 
And the Yehudim without emunah, being filled with kinah, and having rounded up from the people of the market the gornisht and the no-goodniks, and having formed a mob, were throwing the city into an uproar. And the crowd was seeking to bring out Moshiachʼs Shlichim and throw them to the mob, so they attacked the bais of Jason. 
But not having found the Moshiachʼs Shlichim, they were dragging Jason and some other Achim b'Moshiach to the city manhigim, shouting, These, who have been turning the Olam Hazeh upside down, have come here also! 
And Jason is the one who has received them into his bais! And all these ones are acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is a king other than Caesar, this Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua! 
And they stirred up the mob and also the city manhigim who heard them saying these things. 
And having taken the bond money from Jason and the rest, they released them. 
And, immediately during the lailah, the Achim b'Moshiach sent both Rav Sha'ul and Sila to Berea. When Moshiachʼs Shlichim arrived, they joined the minyan in the shul. 
But these Bereans were more noble-minded than the Thessalonians. The Berean Yehudim received the dvar Hashem with all readiness, yom yom (daily) making a chazora (review) and examining and horiva over (analyzing) the Kitvei HaKodesh, to see if these things might be so. 
Therefore, many of them became Messianic Jews, and also of the chashuve Yevanim, not a few nashim and anashim came to emunah. 
But when the Yehudim without emunah from Thessalonika realized that also in Berea the dvar Hashem was being proclaimed by Rav Sha'ul, they came also to Berea, agitating and stirring up mobs. 
And immediately, then, the Achim b'Moshiach sent away Rav Sha'ul to go as far as to the sea, but both Sila and Timotiyos remained in Berea. 
Now the ones escorting Rav Sha'ul brought him as far as Athens, and after receiving instructions to have Sila and Timotiyos come to Rav Sha'ul in Athens as quickly as possible, the ones escorting him departed. 
And awaiting them in Athens, the ruach of Rav Sha'ul was being distressed within him as he observed the city being full of elilim. 
Therefore, Rav Sha'ul was dialoguing and arguing in the shul with the Yehudim and with the yirei Elohim and also in the marketplace yom yom to the ones who happened to be there. 
Also some of the Apikoros (Epicurean) and Stoic philosophers started conversing with Rav Sha'ul, and some were saying, What might this babbler wish to say? And others said, He seems to be a proclaimer of foreign deities. They said this because of what Rav Sha'ul was proclaiming: Yehoshua and the Techiyas HaMesim. 
And having taken hold of Rav Sha'ul, they brought him to the Areopagus, saying, Are we able to have da'as of what this new teaching is, which is being spoken by you? 
For some surprising things you bring to our hearing. Therefore, we desire to have da'as of what these things mean. 
Now all the Athenians and the visiting foreigners and tourists in Athens used to spend time doing nothing but shmoozing about the latest novelty in the news. 
And Rav Sha'ul, taking his stand in the middle of the Areopagus, said, Anashim, Athenians, with respect to everything how very religious indeed I observe you to be. 
For passing through and looking carefully at your objects of worship, I found also an altar on which had been inscribed “To the unknown g-d.” Therefore, what you worship without da'as, this I proclaim to you. 
Hashem, the One having made HaOlam and all the things in it, this One being Adon HaShomayim vaHaAretz, does not dwell in temples made by human hands. 
Nor is Hashem served by human hands, as if Hashem were in need of something, since He gives to all Chayyim and breath and everything. 
And Hashem made from one ancestor every nation of anashim dwelling pnei kol haAretz. And Hashem has set the zmanim and the fixed boundaries of their habitations, 
So that they would seek Hashem, if efsher (perhaps) they might grope for Him and might find Him, though Hashem is not far from each one of us. 
For “we live in Him and in Him we move and have our being,” as also some of your poets have said, “For we are all His offspring.” 
Therefore, being offspring of Hashem, we ought not to think that Hashemʼs essence is like gold or silver or stone, a tzelem (image) made by the skill and thought of Bnei Adam. 
While Hashem has disregarded and let pass the Am HaAretz times of ignorance, now, however, Hashem proclaims to kol bnei Adam everywhere, Make teshuva, 
Because he set a day in which he is about to bring MISHPAT on the Olam Hazeh in tzedek by an ISH whom he appointed, having furnished proof to all by having made him to stand up alive again from the Mesim. 
And when they heard of the Techiyas HaMesim, some were mocking Rav Sha'ul. But others said, We will hear you again about this. 
Thus did Rav Sha'ul go out from the midst of them. 
And some anashim became mishtatef in the chavurah of Rav Sha'ul, in that they had emunah, among whom were both Dionysius, a member of the Athenian Council of the Areopagus, and an isha by name Damaris, and others with them. 
