HISGALUS.
Chapter 16.
And I heard a kol gadol (loud voice) out of Heikhal saying to the shiva malachim (seven angels), “Go and pour out the sheva ke'arot (seven bowls) of the Charon Af of Hashem(the burning wrath of Hashem) onto ha'aretz (the earth).” 
And harishon (the first) malach departed and poured out his ke'ara (bowl) onto ha'aretz (the earth), and a bad and rah (evil) sore came on the Bnei Adam having the mark of the Chayyah (Beast, Anti-Moshiach) and the ones worshiping its Atzav (idol, image). 
And hasheyni (the second) malach poured out his ke'ara (bowl) onto the yam (sea). It became like the dahm of a niftar (deceased person), and every living thing in the yam (sea) died. 
And hashlishi (the third) malach poured out his ke'ara (bowl) onto the neharot (rivers) and the ma'ayonot (springs) of mayim (water), and the mayim became dahm. 
And I heard the malach (angel) of the mayim (waters) saying, “Tzaddik are You, the One who is, the One who was, HaKadosh (the Holy One), because You have judged these things, 
Because they (those of Anti-Moshiach) shed the dahm of the Kedoshim and because the dahm of the Nevi'im they poured out, and You have given them dahm to drink! They are deserving of it!” 
And I heard the Mizbe'ach (altar) crying out, saying, “Ken, Hashem, Adonoi Tzva'ot, Emes and Tzedek are Your Mishpatim (Judgments).” 
And harevi'i (the fourth) malach, angel poured out his ke'ara (bowl) onto the shemesh (sun), and it was given to the shemesh (sun) to scorch Bnei Adam with eish (fire). 
And Bnei Adam were scorched with khom gadol (great heat), and they spoke Chillul Hashem gidufim (blasphemies) against ha-Shem of G-d — the One having the shilton (authority) over these makkot (plagues) — and they did not make teshuva so as to give Hashem kavod (glory). 
And hachamishi (the fifth) malach, angel poured out his ke'ara (bowl) on the kes (throne) of the Chayyah Beast, Anti-Moshiach; and the Malchut (Kingdom) of the Chayyah (Beast, Anti-Moshiach) became darkened, and in agony they were gnawing their tongues. 
And they spoke Chillul Hashem gidufim (blasphemies) against Elohei HaShomayim (the G-d of Heaven) because of their agony and because of their sores, and they did not make teshuva from their ma'asim (deeds). 
And hashishi (the sixth) malach poured out his ke'ara (bowl) on the nahar hagadol (the great river), the Euphrates, and the mayim (water) of it was dried up, that the derech (way) of the melachim (kings) from the rising of the shemesh (sun) might be prepared. 
And I saw coming out of the PEH (mouth) of the Dragon NACHASH and out of the PEH of the Chayyah (Beast, Anti-Moshiach) and out of the PEH of the Navi Sheker (False Prophet) shalosh ruchot teme'ot (three unclean spirits) like tzfarde'im (frogs), 
For they are ruchot (spirits) of shedim (demons) performing otot (miraculous signs), which go forth to the melachim (kings) of kol ha'aretz (all the earth) to gather them to the sadeh krav (battlefield) of the Yom HaGadol (Great Day) of Hashem Adonoi Tzva'ot. 
Hinei, I am coming as unexpectantly as a ganav. Ashrey is the one watching and keeping his kittel, lest he walk naked and they see his bushah (shame). 
And they assembled them into the place being called in Ivrit, Har Megiddo. 
And hashevi'i (seventh) malach poured out his ke'ara (bowl) on the air, and there came a kol gadol (loud voice) out of the Heikhal from the Kes (Throne) saying, “It is a thing of derfilung (fulfillment), it is finished!” 
And there were flashes of lightning and sounds and re'amim (thunder), and a horrendous earthquake occurred such as never did occur vi-bahlt (since) Bnei Adam were on ha'aretz (the earth), so mighty an earthquake, so violent. 
And Ir HaGedolah (the Great City) became split into thirds and the cities of the Goyim (Nations) fell. And Hashem remembered Babel HaGedolah (Babylon the Great), to give her the kos (cup) of the yayin (wine) of his Charon Af (burning wrath). 
And every island fled, and mountains were not found. 
And great seventy-pound hailstones of barad (hail) come down from Shomayim, on Bnei Adam, and Bnei Adam spoke Chillul Hashem gidufim (blasphemies) against Hashem, because of the makkah (plague) of the hailstones, because the makkah (plague) of it is gedolah me'od. 
