MELACHIM BAIS.
Chapter 6.
And the Bnei HaNevi'im said unto Elishah, Hinei now, the makom where we dwell with thee is too tzar (cramped, crowded) for us. 
Let us go, now, unto the Yarden, and take from there every ish one korah (beam), and let us build us a makom (place, home) there, where we may dwell. And he answered, Go, ye. 
And one said, Be agreed, now, and go with thy avadim. And he answered, I will go. 
So he went with them. And when they came to the Yarden, they cut down haetzim (the trees, the wood). 
But as one was felling the korah (beam, i.e., tree), the barzel (iron axehead) fell into the mayim; and he cried out, and said, Alas, adoni! For it was sha'ul (being borrowed). 
And the Ish HaElohim said, Where fell it? And he showed him the makom (place). And he cut an etz (piece of wood, stick), and cast it in there; and the barzel did float up to the surface. 
Therefore said he, Take it out to thee. And he stretched out his yad, and took it. 
Then Melech Aram warred against Yisroel, and took counsel with his avadim, saying, In such and such makom shall be my chosen encampment places. 
And the Ish HaElohim sent unto Melech Yisroel, saying, Beware that thou be shomer not to pass this makom; for there come down Aram. 
And Melech Yisroel sent to the makom which the Ish HaElohim told him and warned him of, and he was watchful there, not just once nor twice. 
Therefore the lev Melech Aram was over this matter much incensed; and he summoned his avadim, and said unto them, Will ye not show me who of us is traitor to Melech Yisroel? 
And one of his avadim said, None, adoni HaMelech; but Elishah HaNavi that is in Yisroel, telleth Melech Yisroel the devarim that thou speakest in thy cheder mishkav (bedroom). 
And he said, Go and spy where he is, that I may send and take him captive. And it was told him, saying, Hinei, he is in Dotan. 
Therefore sent he there susim, and merkavot, and a strong army contingent; and they came by lailah, and surrounded the ir. 
And when the mesharet (minister, servant) of the Ish HaElohim was risen early, and went forth, hinei, an army surrounded the ir with susim and merkavot. And his na'ar said unto him, Alas, adoni! What shall we do? 
And he answered, Fear not; for they that be with us are rabbim (many) more than they that be with them. 
And Elishah davened, and said, Hashem, now, open his eyes, that he may see. And Hashem opened the eyes of the na'ar and he saw; and, hinei, the har was full of susim and merkavot of eish all around Elishah. 
And when they made their descent unto him, Elishah davened unto Hashem, and said, Strike now hagoy hazeh, with blindness. And He struck them with blindness according to the davar Elishah. 
And Elishah said unto them, This is not the derech, neither is this the ir; follow me, and I will lead you to the ish whom ye seek. But he led them to Shomron. 
And it came to pass, when they were come into Shomron, that Elishah said, Hashem, open the eyes of these, that they may see. And Hashem opened their eyes, and they saw; and, hinei, they were in the midst of Shomron. 
And Melech Yisroel said unto Elishah, when he saw them, Avi, shall I strike them? Shall I strike them? 
And he answered, Thou shalt not strike them; wouldest thou strike those whom thou hast taken captive with thy cherev and with thy keshet? Set lechem and mayim before them, that they may eat and drink, and go back to adoneihem. 
And he prepared kerah gedolah (a great meal) for them; and when they finished eating and drinking, he sent them away, and they went to adoneihem. So the raiding parties of Aram (Syria) came no more into Eretz Yisroel. 
And it came to pass after this, that Ben-Hadad Melech Aram gathered all his machaneh, and went up, and laid siege to Shomron. 
And there was a ra'av gadol in Shomron; and, hinei, they laid siege to it, until a rosh chamor was sold for fourscore pieces of kesef, and a quarter of a kav of doveʼs dung for five pieces of kesef. 
And as Melech Yisroel was passing by upon the chomah (wall), there cried out an isha unto him, saying, Hoshi'a (save), adoni HaMelech! 
And he said, If Hashem saves thee not, from where can I save thee? From the goren (threshing floor) or from the yekev (wine press)? 
And HaMelech said unto her, What troubleth thee? And she answered, This isha said unto me, Give thy ben, that we may eat him hayom (today), and we will eat beni (my son) machar (tomorrow). 
So we cooked beni (my son), and did eat him; and I said unto her on the yom ha'acher (the day after), Give thy ben, that we may eat him; and she hath hid her ben. 
And it came to pass, when HaMelech heard the divrei haisha, that he tore his begadim; and he passed by upon the chomah, and the people looked, and, hinei, he had, underneath, sackcloth upon his basar. 
Then he said, Elohim do so and more also to me, if the rosh Elishah Ben Shaphat shall remain on him hayom (today). 
But Elishah sat in his bais, and the Zekenim sat with him; and he sent an ish ahead of him; but before the malach came to him, he said to the Zekenim, See ye how this ben hameratze'ach (son of a murderer) hath sent to cut off mine rosh? Look, when the malach cometh, shut the delet (door), and hold him shut out by the delet; is not the sound of the raglei adonav behind him? 
And while he yet was speaking with them, hinei, the malach (messenger) came down unto him; and he said, Hinei, this ra'ah (evil, disaster) is from Hashem; what hope can I have from Hashem? 
