LUKAS.
Chapter 6.
And it came about on Shabbos that the Moshiach is passing through grain fields, and his talmidim were plucking and eating the heads of grain and rubbing them in their hands. 
Now some of the Perushim said, Why are you doing what is asur (impermissible) on Shabbos? 
And in reply, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Have you not read what Dovid HaMelech did when he and those with him were hungry, 
How he entered into the Beit Hashem and took the Lechem HaPanim (the Bread of the Presence), and he ate and gave to the ones with him, which is mutar (permissible) to eat only by the kohanim? 
And he was saying to them, The Bar Enosh is Adon HaShabbos. 
And it came about on another Shabbos that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach entered into the shul and taught Torah. And there was a man there also whose right hand was withered. 
Now the Sofrim and Perushim were watching Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach to see if he brings refuah on Shabbos, in order that they might find something to accuse him. 
But he knew their machshavot (thoughts), and said to the man having the withered hand, Rise and stand in the midst. And the man got up and stood. 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said to them, I ask you whether it is mutar on Shabbos to do hatov or to do harah, to save nefesh or destroy it? 
And having looked around at all of them, he said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And he did. And his hand was restored. 
But they (the Sofrim and the Perushim) were filled with ka'as (anger), and they were discussing with one another what they might do to him. 
Now it came about in those yamim that Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach went forth to the mountain to daven, and he was spending the whole night b'tefillah to Hashem. 
And when boker came, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach summoned his talmidim, and chose from them Shneym Asar (Twelve), whom he also named Shlichim: 
Shim'on, whom also he called Kefa; Andrew his brother; Ya'akov, Yochanan, Philippos, Bar-Talmai, 
Mattityahu, T'oma, Ya'akov Ben-Chalfai, Shim'on, the one being called the Zealot, 
Yehudah Ben Ya'akov, and Yehudah from K'riot, who became the boged (traitor, betrayer) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And having come down with them, he stood on a level place, and a great multitude of his talmidim, and a great multitude of the Am Berit from all Yehudah and Yerushalayim and the coastal region of Tzor and Tzidon, 
Came to hear him and to receive refuah (healing) from their machlot (illnesses), and the ones being troubled by ruchot hatemeiot (unclean spirits, shedim) were given refuah, 
And all were seeking to touch Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach because koach (power) was going out from him, and he was giving refuah to everyone. 
And lifting up his eyes to look at his talmidim, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said, Ashrey are the aniyim (poor), for yours is the Malchut Hashem. 
Ashrey are the ones hungering now, for you will eat your fill. Ashrey are the ones weeping now, for you will laugh. 
Ashrey are you when Bnei Adam have sinas chinom (baseless hatred) for you and when they ostracize you and they reproach you and cast out your name as rah (evil) on account of the Bar Enosh. 
Have simcha in that day and leap for chedvah (rejoicing), for your sachar (reward) is gadol in Shomayim. According to the same their Avot were doing to the Neviim. 
But oy to you, you ashirim, for you have already received in full your nechamah (comfort). 
Oy to you, the ones having been well fed now, for you will hunger. Oy, the ones laughing now, for you will mourn and weep. 
Woe when all Bnei Adam speak well of you. For according to the same things were their Avot doing to the neviei hasheker (false prophets). 
But to you I say, to the ones listening, show ahavah to your oyvim (enemies), do mitzvahs for the ones with sinas chinom for you, 
Say a bracha for the ones cursing you, daven for the ones mistreating you. 
To the one hitting you on the cheek, offer also the other, and from the one taking away your kaftan (coat), also the tunic and gartel do not withhold. 
To everyone asking you, give tzedakah; and from the one taking away your things, do not demand them back. 
And just as you want that Bnei Adam may do to you, do to them similarly. 
And if you show ahavah to the ones showing ahavah to you, what kind of shvakh (commendation) to you is that? For even the chote'im (sinners) show ahavah to the ones showing ahavah to them. 
For even if you do mitzvahs for the ones doing mitzvahs for you, what kind of shvakh to you is that? 
And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what kind of shvakh to you is that? Even chote'im lend to chote'im, that they receive in return the same amount. 
But show ahavah to your oyvim and do mitzvahs and Gemilut Chasadim, expecting nothing in return. And your sachar will be rav. And you will be bnei Elyon (sons of the Most High), because He is kind to anashim ra'im and those without hodayah. 
Be anashim of rachamanut (compassion), just as also your Elohim HaAv is merciful. 
Judge not, lest you be judged. And do not condemn, and by no means may you be condemned. If you pardon with mechila (forgiveness), you will be pardoned with selicha (forgiveness). 
Give, and it will be given to you. A good measure, having been pressed down and having been shaken, overflowing, will be put into your kheyk (lap). For by what measure you measure it will be measured in return to you. 
Now he told also a mashal to them. Surely an ivver is not able to guide an ivver, is he? Will not both fall into a pit? 
A talmid is not above his moreh. But everyone, having been fully trained, will be like his moreh (teacher). 
And why do you see the speck in the eye of your ach, but the log in your own eye you do not notice? 
How are you able to say to your ach, Ach, let me remove the speck in your eye, while you yourself are not seeing the log in your own eye? Tzeva, remove first the log from your eye, and then you will see clearly to take out the speck from your ach b'Moshiach. 
For there is no etz tov producing pri rah, nor again an etz rah producing pri tov. 
For each etz by its own pri will be known. For not from thorns do they gather figs nor from a thorn bush do they pick grapes. 
The ish tov from the good storehouse of the lev produces tov, and the ish rah out of the evil storehouse produces rah. For from the abundance of the lev the peh (mouth) speaks. 
And why do you call me Adoni and yet you do not do what I say? 
Everyone coming to me and hearing my divrei torah and putting them into practice, I will show you to whom he is likened. 
He is likened to the man building a bais who dug and went down deep and laid a yesod upon the av sela (bedrock). And a flood having come, the river struck against that bais, and the flood was not strong enough to shake it, because its binnuy was firm. 
Now the one having heard, and not having put them into practice, is like a man having built a bais (house) upon the ground without a yesod (foundation), which the river struck against, and ofen ort (immediately) the bais collapsed, and gadol (great) was the churban of that bais. 
