AMOS.
Chapter 2.
Thus saith Hashem: For shloshah peysha'im of Moav, even for arba'ah, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because he burned the bones of Melech Edom into lime; 
But I will send an eish upon Moav, and it shall devour the fortresses of Keriyot; and Moav shall die with tumult, with war cries, and with the blast of the shofar; 
And I will cut off the shofet (judge) from the midst thereof, and will slay all the sarim (princes) thereof with him, saith Hashem. 
Thus saith Hashem: For shloshah peysha'im of Yehudah, even for arba'ah, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have despised the torat Hashem, and have not been shomer over His chukkim, and their lies caused them to err, after the halakhah of their avot; 
But I will send an eish upon Yehudah, and it shall devour the fortresses of Yerushalayim. 
Thus saith Hashem: For shloshah peysha'im of Yisroel, even for arba'ah, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they sold the tzaddik for kesef, and the needy for a pair of sandals; 
They who trample on the dust of the ground which is on the rosh of the poor, and turn aside the derech of the anavim; and an ish and his av will go in unto the same na'arah, to commit chillul Hashem against My Shem kodesh; 
And they lay themselves down upon clothes taken in pledge by every mizbe'ach, and they guzzle the yayin of the fined in the Beis Eloheichem. 
Yet destroyed I HaEmori before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; yet I destroyed his p'ri from above, and his shorashim from beneath. 
Also I brought you up from Eretz Mitzrayim, and led you arba'im shanah through the midbar, to possess the Eretz HaEmori (land of the Amorite). 
And I raised up of your banim for nevi'im, and of your bochurim for Nezirim. Is it not even thus, O ye Bnei Yisroel? saith Hashem. 
But ye gave the Nezirim yayin to drink; and commanded the nevi'im, saying: Prophesy not. 
Hinei, I am weighed down by you, as a cart is pressed that is full of sheaves. 
Therefore flight shall perish from the swift, and the chazak shall not strengthen his ko'ach, neither shall the gibbor deliver his own nefesh; 
Neither shall he stand that handleth the keshet; and he that is swift of foot shall not deliver his own nefesh; neither shall he that rideth the sus deliver himself. 
And he that is courageous among the gibborim shall flee away naked in that Yom, saith Hashem. 
