IYOV.
Chapter 41.
See, every tokhelet (expectation) is false; shall not one be cast down even at the sight of him? 
None is so foolhardy that dare stir him up. Mi (who) then is able to stand before Me? 
Mi (who) hath given Me, that I must repay him? Whatsoever is under the kol HaShomayim is Mine. 
I will not keep silent about his members, nor his gevurah, nor the grace of his form. 
Mi (who) can remove his outer garment? Or mi (who) can come near him with a double bridle? 
Mi (who) can open the doors of his face? Terror is round about his teeth. 
His scales are his ga'avah (pride), shut up together as with a rigid chotam (seal). 
One is so near to another, that no ruach (air) can pass between them. 
They are joined one to another; they stick together, inseparably. 
By his sneezings ohr flares out, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the shachar. 
Out of his mouth goeth flame, and sparks of eish leap out. 
Out of his nostrils goeth forth smoke, like a seething pot or caldron. 
His breath kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth. 
In his neck resideth oz (strength), and terror dances before him. 
The flanks of his basar are joined together; they are firm in themselves, immoveable. 
His lev (chest) is as firm as an even (stone); yea, as hard as the lower millstone. 
When he raiseth up himself, the mighty are afraid; shuddering they retreat. 
The cherev of him that reacheth at him cannot hold — the spear, the dart, nor the harpoon. 
He esteemeth barzel (iron) like straw, and nechoshet as rotten wood. 
The arrow cannot make him flee; sling stones are turned with him into stubble. 
Clubs are counted as straw; he laugheth at the shaking of a spear. 
Sharp shards are his under parts; he leaveth a trail in the mud like a threshing sledge. 
He maketh the deep to boil like a pot; he stirreth the yam like a pot of ointment. 
He maketh a wake to shine after him; one would think the deep to be white hair. 
Upon earth there is not his equal, who is created without fear. 
He beholdeth all things lofty; he is a melech over every proud beast. 
