BERESHIS.
Chapter 6.
And it came to pass, when HaAdam began to multiply on the face of ha'adamah, and banot were born unto them, 
That the bnei HaElohim saw the banot HaAdam that they were tovot; and they took them nashim of all which they chose. 
And Hashem said, My Ruach Hakodesh shall not always strive with Adam, for that he also is basar: yet his yamim shall be a hundred and twenty shanah. 
HaNefilim were on ha'aretz in those yamim; and also after that, when the bnei HaElohim came in unto the banot HaAdam, and they bore children to them, the same became gibborim which were of old, men of renown. 
And Hashem saw that the wickedness of HaAdam was great in ha'aretz and that every yetzer (inclination) of the machshevot (thoughts) of his lev was only rah (evil) continually. 
And Hashem relented that He had made HaAdam on ha'aretz, and He was grieved in His lev. 
And Hashem said, I will wipe out HaAdam whom I have created from the face of ha'adamah; both Adam, and Behemah, and the Remes and the Oph HaShomayim; for I relent that I have made them. 
But Noach found chen (grace, unmerited favor) in the eyes of Hashem. 
These are the toldot of Noach; Noach was an ish tzaddik and tamim among those of his time, and Noachʼs halachah was with HaElohim. 
And Noach fathered three banim: Shem, Cham, and Yephet. 
Ha'aretz also was corrupt before HaElohim, and ha'aretz was filled with chamas. 
And Elohim looked upon ha'aretz, and, hinei, it was corrupt; for kol basar had corrupted his derech upon ha'aretz. 
And Elohim said unto Noach, The ketz (end) of kol basar is come before Me; for ha'aretz is filled with chamas because of them; and, hineni, I will destroy them with ha'aretz. 
Make thee a tevah (ark) of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the tevah (ark), and shalt coat it within and without with tar. 
And this is how thou shalt build it: the length of the tevah (ark) shall be three hundred cubits, the width of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits. 
A roof shalt thou make to the tevah (ark), and thou shalt finish it to a cubit from the top; and the petach of the tevah (ark) shalt thou set in the side thereof; with lower, second, and third decks shalt thou make it. 
And, hineni, I, even I, do bring a mabbul of waters upon ha'aretz, to destroy kol basar, wherein is the ruach chayyim, from under Shomayim; and everything that is in ha'aretz shall perish. 
And then with thee will I establish My brit (covenant); and thou shalt come into the tevah (ark), thou, and thy banim, and thy isha, and the nashim of thy banim with thee. 
And of every living thing of kol basar, two of every kind shalt thou bring into the tevah (ark), to keep them alive with thee; they shall be zachar and nekevah. 
Of birds after their kind, and of behemah after their kind, of every remes of ha'adamah after its kind, two of every kind shall come unto thee, to keep them alive. 
And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt gather it to thee; and it shall be for ochel for thee, and for them. 
Thus did Noach; according to all that Elohim commanded him, so did he. 
