SHEMOT.
Chapter 2.
And there went an ish of the Bais Levi, and took to wife a bat Levi. 
And the isha conceived, and bore a ben; and when she saw him that he was tov, she hid him three months. 
And when she could no longer hide him, she took for him a tevah (ark) of papyrus, and daubed it with tar and with pitch, and put the yeled therein; and she set it in the reeds by the bank of the Nile. 
And his achot stood afar off, to see what would be done to him. 
And the Bat Pharaoh came down to bathe herself at the Nile; and her na'arot walked along by the Nileʼs bank; and when she saw the tevah (ark) among the reeds, she sent her amah (maid servant) to fetch it. 
And when she had opened it, she saw the yeled; and, hinei, the na'ar was crying. And she had compassion on him, and said, This one is of the yaldei HaIvrim (Hebrew children). 
Then said his achot to Bat Pharaoh, Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of HaIvriyyot, that she may nurse the yeled for thee? 
And Bat Pharaoh said to her, Go. And haalmah went and called the em hayeled. 
And Bat Pharaoh said unto her, Take this yeled away, and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the isha took the yeled, and nursed it. 
And the yeled grew, and she brought him unto Bat Pharaoh, and he became her ben. And she called shmo Moshe: and she said, Because meshitihu (I drew him) out of the mayim. 
And it came to pass in those days, when Moshe was grown, that he went out unto his achim, and looked on their sevalot: and he spied an Egyptian striking an ish Ivri, one of his achim. 
And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no ish, he killed the Egyptian, and hid him in the chol (sand). 
And when he went out the second day, hinei, two anashim Ivrim were fighting; he said to him in the wrong, Why strike thou thy re'a? 
And he said, Who made thee a sar and a shofet over us? Intendest thou to kill me, as thou killedst the Egyptian? And Moshe feared, and thought, Surely this thing is known. 
Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moshe. But Moshe fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in Eretz Midyan; and he sat down by a well. 
Now the kohen of Midyan had sheva banot; and they came and drew mayim, and filled the troughs to water the tzon of their av. 
And the ro'im (shepherds) came and drove them away; but Moshe stood up and rescued them, and watered their tzon. 
And when they came to Reuel their av, he said, How is it that ye are come so soon today? 
And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the yad of the ro'im (shepherds), and also drew enough for us, and watered the tzon. 
And he said unto his banot, And where is he? Why is it that ye have left the ish? Call him, that he may eat lechem. 
And Moshe was content to dwell with the ish; and he gave Moshe Tzipporah his bat. 
And she bore him a ben, and he called shmo Gershom; for he said, I have been a ger in a foreign land. 
And it came to pass in process of time, that Melech Mitzrayim died; and the Bnei Yisroel groaned by reason of haAvodah (the Bondage), and they cried out, and their cry came up unto HaElohim by reason of haAvodah. 
And Elohim heard their groaning, and Elohim remembered His brit (covenant) with Avraham, with Yitzchak, and with Ya'akov. 
And Elohim looked upon the Bnei Yisroel, and Elohim had da'as of them. 
