VAYIKRA.
Chapter 17.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto Aharon, and unto his banim, and unto all the Bnei Yisroel, and say unto them: This is the thing which Hashem hath commanded, saying, 
What man soever there be of Bais Yisroel, that sacrificeth an ox, or lamb, or goat, in the machaneh, or that sacrificeth it outside of the machaneh, 
And bringeth it not unto the petach (entrance) of the Ohel Mo'ed, to offer a korban unto Hashem before the Mishkan of Hashem, shefach dahm (shedding of blood) shall be imputed unto that man; he hath committed shefach dahm; and that man shall be cut off from among his people; 
To the end that the Bnei Yisroel may bring their zevakhim, which they offer in the open sadeh, even that they may bring them unto Hashem, unto the petach of the Ohel Mo'ed, unto the kohen, and offer them for zivkhei shelamim unto Hashem. 
And the kohen shall sprinkle the dahm upon the Mizbe'ach of Hashem at the petach of the Ohel Mo'ed, and burn the fat for a re'ach nichoach unto Hashem. 
And they shall no more offer their zevakhim unto goat demons, after whom they have gone a-whoring. This shall be a chukkat olam unto them throughout their dorot (generations). 
And thou shalt say unto them, Whatsoever man there be of the Bais Yisroel, or of the ger which sojourn among them, that offereth an olah (burnt offering) or zevakh, 
And bringeth it not unto the petach of the Ohel Mo'ed, to offer it unto Hashem; even that man shall be cut off from among his people. 
And whatsoever man there be of Bais Yisroel, or of the ger that sojourn among you, that eateth any manner of dahm; I will even set My face against that nefesh that eateth dahm, and will cut it off from among its people. 
For the nefesh of the basar is in the dahm: and I have given it to you upon the Mizbe'ach to make kapporah for your nefashot: for it is the dahm that maketh kapporah for the nefesh. 
Therefore I said unto the Bnei Yisroel, No nefesh of you shall eat dahm, neither shall any ger that sojourneth among you eat dahm. 
And whatsoever ish there be of the Bnei Yisroel, or of the ger that sojourn among you, which hunteth down any beast or fowl that may be eaten, he shall even drain out the dahm thereof, and cover it with dust. 
For as for the nefesh of all basar, the dahm of it is its nefesh; therefore I said unto the Bnei Yisroel, Ye shall eat the dahm of no manner of basar: for the nefesh of all basar is the dahm thereof; whosoever eateth it shall be cut off. 
And every nefesh that eateth nevelah (carcass), or terefah (that which was torn with beasts), whether native born or a ger, he shall both wash his clothes, and bathe himself in mayim, and be tamei until erev; then shall he be tahor. 
But if he wash them not, nor bathe his basar; then he shall bear his avon (iniquity). 
