ESTHER.
Chapter 9.
Now in the twelfth month, that is, the month Adar, on the thirteenth day of the same, when the devar HaMelech and his dat drew near to be put in execution, in the day that the oyvei HaYehudim hoped to have power over them, (though it was turned to the contrary, that the Yehudim had rule over them that hated them); 
The Yehudim assembled themselves together in their cities throughout all the provinces of HaMelech Achashverosh, to lay hands on such as sought their hurt, and no man could withstand them, for the pachad of them fell upon all people. 
And all the nobles of the provinces, and the satraps, and the governors, and officials of HaMelech helped the Yehudim; because the pachad of Mordechai fell upon them. 
For Mordechai was gadol in the Bais HaMelech, and his fame went out throughout all the provinces; for haish Mordechai grew more and more powerful. 
Thus the Yehudim struck all their oyvim with makkat cherev, slaughter, destruction, and did what they would unto those that hated them. 
And in Shushan the capital the Yehudim slew and destroyed 500 men. 
And Parshandata, Dalphon, Aspata, 
Porata, Adalya, Aridata, 
Parmashta, Arisai, Aridai, and Vaizata, 
The aseret bnei Haman ben Hamdata, tzorer (enemy of) HaYehudim; but on the plunder laid they not their hand. 
On that day the number of those that were slain in Shushan the capital was brought before HaMelech. 
And HaMelech said unto Ester HaMalkah, The Yehudim have slain and destroyed 500 men in Shushan the capital, and the ten bnei Haman. What have they done in the rest of the provinces of HaMelech? Now what is thy she'elah (petition)? And it shall be granted thee. Or what is thy bakash further? And it shall be done. 
Then said Ester, If it be tov to HaMelech, let it be granted to the Yehudim which are in Shushan to do tomorrow also according unto the dat of this day, and let the aseret bnei Haman be hanged upon haetz. 
And HaMelech commanded it so to be done; and the dat (decree) was given at Shushan; and they hanged aseret bnei Haman. 
For the Yehudim that were in Shushan assembled themselves together on the 14th day also of the month Adar, and slew 300 men at Shushan; but on the plunder they laid not their hand. 
But the she'ar (remainder, remnant) of the Yehudim that were in the provinces of HaMelech assembled themselves together, engaged in self-defense, got relief from their oyvim, slew of those hating them 75,000, but they laid not their hands on the plunder. 
This was on the 13th day of the month Adar, and on the 14th day of the same rested they, and made it a yom mishteh and simcha. 
But the Yehudim that were at Shushan assembled together on the 13th day thereof, and on the 14th thereof, and on the 15th day of the same they rested, and made it a yom mishteh and simcha. 
Therefore the Yehudim of the villages, that dwelt in the unwalled towns, made the 14th day of the month Adar a simcha and mishteh, and a yontef, and of sending presents each one to his neighbor. 
And Mordechai wrote these things, and sent seferim unto all the Yehudim that were in all the provinces of HaMelech Achashverosh, both near and far, 
To establish this among them, that they should keep the 14th day of the month Adar, and the fifteenth day of the same, shanah v'shanah, 
As the yamim wherein the Yehudim got relief from their oyvim, and the month which was turned unto them from yagon (sorrow) to simcha (joy), and from evel (mourning) into yontef; that they should make them yemei mishteh v'simcha, and of sending presents one to another, and mattanot (gifts) to the evyon (needy, poor). 
And the Yehudim undertook to do as they had begun, and as Mordechai had written unto them; 
Because Haman ben Hamdata, the Agagi, the tzorer kol HaYehudim, had devised against the Yehudim to destroy them, and had cast Pur, that is, the goral (lot), to utterly defeat them, and to destroy them; 
But when Ester came before HaMelech, he commanded by hasefer that his wicked machashevah, which he devised against the Yehudim, should return upon his own head, and that he and his banim should be hanged on the etz. 
Wherefore they called these yamim Purim after the shem of the Pur. Therefore for all the words of this iggeret (letter), and of that which they had seen concerning this matter, and which had happened unto them, 
The Yehudim established, and took upon them, and upon their zera, and upon all such as joined themselves unto them, so as it should not fail, that they would keep these two days according to their writing, and according to their appointed time shanah v'shanah; 
And that these yamim should be remembered and kept dor v'dor (throughout every generation), in every mishpachah, every province, and every city; and that these yemei HaPurim should never cease from among the Yehudim, nor the memorial of them perish from their zera. 
Then Ester HaMalkah, the bat Avichayil, and Mordechai HaYehudi, wrote with kol tokef (all authority), to confirm this second iggeret (letter of) Purim. 
And he sent seferim unto all the Yehudim, to the hundred twenty and seven provinces of the malchut of Achashverosh, with words of shalom and emes, 
To confirm these yemei HaPurim in their times appointed, according as Mordechai HaYehudi and Ester HaMalkah had enjoined them, and as they had decreed for themselves and for their zera, the matters of the tzomot (fasts) and their ze'akah (lamentation). 
And the decree of Ester confirmed these matters of Purim; and it was written in the sefer. 
