LUKAS.
Chapter 4.
Now Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach, full of the Ruach Hakodesh, returned from the Yarden, and was being led by the Ruach Hakodesh bamidbar, 
Where for ARBA'IM YOM Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was undergoing nisayon by HaSatan. And he had no okhel in those yamim. And when the yamim had been completed, he was famished. 
And HaSatan said to Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach, If you are the Ben HaElohim, command this even (stone) that it become lechem. 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach answered HaSatan, It has been written, LO AL HALECHEM LVADOH YCHEYEH HAADAM, (Not by bread alone will man live). 
And HaSatan led Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach up and showed him, in a moment of time, all the mamlechot (kingdoms) of the Olam Hazeh; 
And HaSatan said to him, To you I will give all this shilton (rule), this shlita (control), and their kavod, because it has been given to me; and to whomever I desire, I give it. 
Therefore, if you will be KOREIA UMISHTACHAVEH(kneeling down and worship) before me, everything will be yours. 
And in reply, he said to HaSatan, It has been written, ES HASHEM ELOHEICHA TIRAH VOTO TAAVOD(Hashem Eloheicha you shall fear and him alone you shall serve). 
And HaSatan led him to Yerushalayim and set him atop the pinnacle of the Beis HaMikdash, and said to him, If you are Ben HaElohim, throw yourself down from here; 
For it has been written, MALACHAV YTZAVVEH LACH (His angels he will command concerning you to protect you, 
And upon their hands they will lift you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone). 
And in reply, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said to HaSatan, It says, LO TENASSU ES HASHEM ELOHEICHEM(Do not put to the test Hashem your G-d.). 
And after Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach completed all nisayonos, HaSatan went away from him until an opportune time. 
And in the gevurat HaRuach Hakodesh, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach returned to the Galil. And a report went out throughout all the surrounding countryside about him. 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach was saying shiurim in their shuls and eliciting a peledike response (reaction of marveling) from everyone. 
And he came to Natzeret, the shtetl of his guddal and he entered according to his minhag on Shabbos into the shul and was given an aliyah as the Baal Koreh. 
After the Hagbah, he was presented with the megillat sefer Yeshayah and having unrolled the megillah, he found the dvar where it had been written, 
RUACH ADONAI HASHEM ALAI YAAN MASHACH ADONAI OTI LEVASER ANAVIM SHELACHANI LIKRO LISHVUYIM DEROR, (The Spirit of the Sovereign L-rd is upon me because He anointed me to preach Besuras HaGeulah to the poor, He has sent me to preach to the captives release), and to the blind PEKACH KOACH, VSHALACH RETZUTZIM CHAFSHIM, (the recovery of sight, to set the oppressed free), 
LIKRO SHENAT RATZON LAHASHEM (To preach the year of Hashemʼs favor.) 
And doing the glilah ceremony, he rolled up the megillah; and, having given it back to the shammash, he sat down to teach. And all the eyes in the shul were focused on him. 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach began to speak to them, Hayom (today) this dvar of the Kitvei Hakodesh has been fulfilled in your hearing. 
And everyone was speaking well of him, and they were amazed at the divrei Chen coming out of his mouth and they were saying, Can this be Ben Yosef? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Muz zain (no doubt) you will speak this mashal to me: Rofeh, heal yourself. Everything we heard that happened in K'far-Nachum, do also here in your shtetl. 
But he said, Omein, I say to you that no navi is welcome in his own shtetl, in his own eretz moledet (homeland). 
Omein, I tell you, there were many almanot in Yisroel in the yamim of Eliyahu HaNavi, when Shomayim was shut up for shalosh shanim and shishah chodashim (three years and six months), when a great famine occurred over all the land, 
And to not one of them was Eliyahu HaNavi sent except to Tzarfat of Tzidon to an isha, an almanah. 
And many metzoraim (lepers) were in Yisroel during the time of Elishah HaNavi, and not one of them was cleansed except Naaman the Syrian. 
And hearing these things, all in the shul were filled with ka'as (anger). 
And they got up and drove Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach outside the shtetl; and they led him up to the top of the hill upon which the shtetl had been built, and they were intending to throw him down. 
But having gone through the midst of them, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was walking away. 
And Moshiach went down to K'far-Nachum, a shtetl of the Galil. And he was saying them shiurim on the Shabbatot. 
And they were amazed at his torah, because Rebbe Melech HaMoshiachʼs dvar torah was with samchut (authority). 
And in the shul there was a man having a ruach hatameh (unclean spirit, shed, demon) and it let out a shrai (scream). 
Ah, mah lanu vlach, Yehoshua of Natzeret? Did you come to destroy us? I have daas of who you are, HaKadosh of Hashem. 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach rebuked him saying, Sha! Shekit! And come out of him! And right in front of them, when the shed threw him down, the ruach hatameh came out of him and did not do him any harm. 
And astonishment came upon everyone. And they were talking to one another saying, What is this dvar torah, for with samchut (authority) and koach (power) he commands the ruchot hatemeiot (unclean spirits) and they come out! 
And a report was going out about him into every place of the surrounding region. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach got up from the shul and entered into the bais of Shim'on. And the chamot (mother-in-law, shviger) of Shim'on was fever-stricken, and they asked him about her. 
And having stood over her, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach rebuked the kaddachat(fever) and it left her. And at once, having got up, she was functioning as their mesharetet (servant, keli kodesh, lady minister). 
And while the shemesh (sun) was setting, all who had cholim (sick people), all with various machlot (illnesses) brought them to Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach. And he, laying his hands upon each one of them, was giving refuah (healing) to them. 
And also shedim were coming out from many, shrieking a shrai and crying out, You are HaBen HaElohim! And rebuking them, he was not allowing them to speak, because they had daas of his identity as Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach. 
And in the boker, having gone forth, he went out to a desolate place. And the multitudes were seeking him, and when they got to him, they wanted to prevent his departure from them. 
But he said to them, It is necessary for me to preach the Malchut Hashem in the other shtetlach, because this is the tachlis for which I was sent. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was preaching in the shuls of Yehudah. 
