SHEMOT.
Chapter 26.
Moreover thou shalt make the Mishkan (Tabernacle) with ten curtains of twisted linen with turquoise, purple, and scarlet wool; with keruvim of artistic needle work shalt thou make them. 
The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and the width of one curtain four cubits; and every one of the curtains shall have middah achat (one size). 
The five curtains shall be choverot (joined together) one to another; and the other five curtains shall be choverot one to another. 
And thou shalt make loops of turquoise wool upon the edge of the outermost curtain of the set; and likewise shalt thou make loops upon the edge of the outermost curtain, in the second set. 
Fifty loops shalt thou make in the first curtain, and fifty loops shalt thou make on the edge of the outermost curtain that is in the second set; that the loops may be opposite one another. 
And thou shalt make fifty hooks of zahav, and join the curtains together with the hooks: so that the Mishkan shall become echad. 
And thou shalt make curtains of goat hair to be an Ohel over the Mishkan: eleven curtains shalt thou make. 
The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, the width of one curtain four cubits: and the eleven curtains shall be all of the middah achat (same size). 
And thou shalt join into one five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves, and shalt fold the sixth curtain over the front of the Ohel. 
And thou shalt make fifty loops along the edge of the first curtain at the end of one choveret (set), and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain of the second choveret (set). 
And thou shalt make fifty hooks of nechoshet, and put the hooks into the loops, and attach the Ohel, so that it may become echad (one). 
And the remnant of the overhang of the curtains of the Ohel, half of the curtain that remaineth, shall hang over the back of the Mishkan. 
And a cubit on the one side, and a cubit on the other side of that which remaineth in the length of the curtains of the Ohel, shall hang over the sides of the Mishkan on this side and the other, to cover it. 
And thou shalt make a Mikhseh for the Ohel of ram skins dyed red, and a Mikhseh of tachash skins above. 
And thou shalt make the kerashim (planks) of the Mishkan of acacia wood, standing erect. 
Ten cubits shall be the length of each keresh (plank), and a cubit and a half shall be the width of each keresh (plank). 
Two yadot (tenons, projections) shall there be in each keresh (plank), set in order one against another: thus shalt thou make for all the kerashim (planks) of the Mishkan. 
And thou shalt make the kerashim (planks) for the Mishkan, twenty kerashim (planks) on the south side southward. 
And thou shalt make arba'im sockets of kesef under the twenty kerashim (planks); two sockets under one keresh (plank) for its two yadot (tenons, projections), and two sockets under the next keresh (plank) for its two yadot. 
And for the second wall of the Mishkan on the tzafon (north) side there shall be twenty kerashim (planks): 
And their arba'im sockets of kesef; two sockets under one keresh (plank), and two sockets under the next keresh (plank). 
And for the back of the Mishkan on the west, thou shalt make six kerashim (planks). 
And two kerashim (planks) shalt thou make for the corners of the Mishkan in the rear. 
And they (the planks) shall be even at the bottom, and they shall be joined together (even) at the top, for a single ring thus shall it be for them both; they shall be for the two corners. 
And they shall be shemoneh kerashim (eight planks), and their sockets of kesef, sixteen sockets; two sockets under one keresh, two sockets under the next keresh. 
And thou shalt make crossbars of acacia wood; five for the kerashim (planks) of the one side of the Mishkan, 
And five crossbars for the kerashim (planks) of the second wall of the Mishkan, and five crossbars for the kerashim (planks) of the wall of the Mishkan at the back, westward. 
And the middle crossbar inside the kerashim (planks) shall extend from end to end. 
And thou shalt overlay the kerashim (planks) with zahav, and make their rings of zahav as housing for the crossbars: and thou shalt overlay the crossbars with zahav. 
And thou shalt erect the Mishkan according to the mishpat (plan, specifications) thereof which was showed thee in HaHar. 
And thou shalt make a Parochet of turquoise, purple, and scarlet wool, and twisted linen of ma'aseh choshev (artistic craftwork) with keruvim shall it be made: 
And thou shalt hang it upon four ammudim of acacia wood overlaid with zahav: their hooks shall be of zahav, upon the four sockets of kesef. 
And thou shalt hang up the Parochet under the hooks, that thou mayest bring in there behind the Parochet, the Aron HaEdut: and the Parochet shall separate unto you between HaKodesh and the Kodesh HaKodashim. 
And thou shalt put the Kapporet upon the Aron HaEdut in the Kodesh HaKodashim. 
And thou shalt place the Shulchan michutz (outside) the Parochet, and the Menorah opposite the Shulchan on the south side of the Mishkan: and thou shalt place the Shulchan on the north side. 
And thou shalt make a Masach (Screen, Curtain) for the petach (entrance) of the Ohel, of turquoise, purple, and scarlet wool, and twisted linen, wrought with ma'aseh rokem (embroidering craft). 
And thou shalt make for the Masach five ammudim of acacia wood, and overlay them with zahav, and their hooks shall be of zahav; and thou shalt cast five sockets of nechoshet for them. 
