DIVREY HAYAMIM ALEF.
Chapter 7.
Now the Bnei Yissakhar were Tola, Puah, Yashuv, Shimrom, 4. 
And the Bnei Tola: Uzzi, Refayah, Yeriel, Yachmai, Yivsam, and Shmuel, heads of their bais avot, namely, of Tola; they were gibborei chayil (warriors of valor) in their toldot (generations), whose number was in the days of Dovid 22,600. 
And the Bnei Uzzi: Yizrachyah; and the Bnei Yizrachyah: Micha'el, and Ovadyah, and Yoel, Yishiyah, 5, all of them rashim (leaders). 
And with them, by their toldot, after their bais avot, were bands of soldiers for milchamah, 36,000, for they had many nashim and banim. 
And their brethren among all the mishpekhot of Yissakhar were gibborei chayil, reckoned in all by their genealogies 87,000. 
The Bnei Binyamin: Bela, and Becher, and Yedia'el, 3. 
And the Bnei Bela: Etzbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Yerimot, and Iri, 5; heads of their bais avot, gibborei chayalim (warriors of valor); and were reckoned by their genealogies 22,034. 
And the Bnei Becher: Zemirah, and Yoash, and Eli'ezer, and Elyo'einai, and Omri, and Yeremot, and Aviyah, and Anatot, and Alemet. All these are the Bnei Becher. 
And the number of them, listed by their toldot, heads of their bais avot, gibborei chayil, was twenty elef and two hundred. 
The Bnei Yedia'el: Bilhan; and the Bnei Bilhan; Ye'ush, and Binyamin, and Ehud, and Kena'anah, and Zeitan, and Tarshish, and Achishachar. 
All these the Bnei Yedia'el, by the heads of families, gibborei chayalim, were seventeen elef and two hundred soldiers, fit to go forth for milchamah. 
Shuppim also, and Chuppim, the Bnei Ir, and Chushim, the Bnei Acher. 
The Bnei Naphtali: Yachtziel, and Guni, and Yetzer, and Shallum, the Bnei Bilhah. 
The Bnei Menasheh: Asriel, whom his Aramean pilegesh bore; she bore Machir avi Gil'ad; 
And Machir took an isha from the Chuppim and Shuppim, whose achotʼs shem was Ma'achah; and the shem of the second was Tzelophechad, and Tzelophechad had banot. 
And Ma'achah eshet Machir bore ben, and she called shmo Peresh; and the shem of his brother was Sheresh; and his banim were Ulam and Rakem. 
And the Bnei Ulam: Bedan. These were the Bnei Gil'ad Ben Machir Ben Menasheh. 
And his achot Hammolekhet bore Ishhod, and Avi'ezer, and Machlah. 
And the Bnei Shemida were Achyan, and Shechem, and Likchi, and Ani'am. 
And the Bnei Ephrayim: Shutelach, and Bered bno, and Tachat bno, and El'adah bno, and Tachat bno, 
And Zavad bno, and Shutelach bno, and Ezer, and El'ad, whom the anashim of Gat that were born in that land slaughtered, because they came down to take away their mikneh (livestock). 
And Ephrayim avihem mourned many days, and his achim came to comfort him. 
And when he went in to his isha, she conceived, and bore ben, and he called shmo Beri'ah, because it went in ra'ah (evil, disaster, misfortune) with his bais. 
(And his bat was She'erah, who built Lower Beit-Choron, and the Upper, and Uzein She'erah.) 
And Refach was bno, also Resheph, and Telach bno, and Tachan bno, 
La'dan bno, Ammihud bno, Elishama bno, 
Non (Nun) bno, Yehoshua bno. 
And their possessions and settlements were Beit-El and the villages thereof, and to the east Na'aran, and to the west Gezer, with the villages thereof; Shechem also and the villages thereof, unto Ayah and the villages thereof; 
And by the borders of the Bnei Menasheh, Beit-She'an and her villages, Ta'nakh and her villages, Megiddo and her villages, Dor and her villages. In these dwelt the Bnei Yosef Ben Yisroel. 
The Bnei Asher: Yimnah, and Yishvah, and Yishvi, and Beri'ah, and Serach their achot. 
And the Bnei Beri'ah: Chever, and Malki'el, who is avi Birzayit. 
And Chever fathered Yaphlet, Shomer, Chotam, and Shu'a their achot. 
And the Bnei Yaphlet: Pasach, Bimhal, Ashvat. These are the Bnei Yaphlet. 
And the Bnei Shemer: Achi, Rohgah, Chubbah, and Aram. 
And the Ben Helem his brother: Tzophach, Yimna, Shelesh, and Amal. 
The Bnei Tzophach: Suach, Charnepher, Shu'al, Beri, and Yimrah, 
Betzer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Yitran, and Be'era. 
And the Bnei Yeter: Yephunneh, Pispah, Ara. 
And the Bnei Ulla: Arach, Channi'el, Ritzya. 
All these were the Bnei Asher, heads of their bais avot, choice gibborim chayalim, outstanding of the nasi'im. And the number throughout the genealogy of them that were battle-ready was twenty and six elef anashim. 
