GEVUROT MEYRUACH HAKODESH.
Chapter 11.
And the Moshiachʼs Shlichim and the Achim b'Moshiach, the ones throughout Yehudah, heard that also the non-Jews received the dvar Hashem. 
But when Kefa went up to Yerushalayim, those of the faction of the Bris Milah were taking issue with him, 
Saying, You entered into a bais of anashim arelim (uncircumcised men) and you sat at tish with them. 
But Kefa began explaining to them beseder (in order), saying, 
I was davening in the shtetl of Yafo and in a trance I saw a chazon (vision) of a certain object descending like a large linen cloth lowered by four corners from Shomayim, and it came up to me. 
And when I had gazed upon it, I saw fourfooted animals of ha'aretz and chayyat hasadeh and remasim haAdamah and oph HaShomayim. 
And I heard also a bat kol saying to me, Get up, Kefa. Kill and eat. 
But I said, By no means, Adoni, because nothing common or tameh (unclean) has ever entered into my stomach. 
And the bat kol answered for a second time from Shomayim, What Hashem made tahor (clean) do not declare tameh (unclean). 
This happened shlosh pe'amim, and everything was pulled up again into Shomayim. 
Hinei, at once shloshah anashim stood at the bais in which I was, having been sent from Caesarea to me. 
And the Ruach Hakodesh said to me to accompany them without hesitating and these sheshet haAchim b'Moshiach came with me also, and we entered into the bais of the ish. 
He reported to us how he saw the malach in his bais having stood and having said, Send to Yafo and summon Shim'on, the one being called Kefa, 
Who will speak words to you by which you and all your bais will find Yeshu'at Eloheinu. 
As I began to speak, the Ruach Hakodesh fell upon them, just as also upon us in the beginning. 
And I remembered the dvar of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu, how he used to say, Yochanan gave a tevilah of teshuva with a mikveh mayim, but you will be given a tevilah with the Ruach Hakodesh. 
If then Hashem gave the same matanah to them as also to us after believing in Moshiach Adoneinu, who then was I to stand in the way of Hashem? 
And having heard these things, they were silenced and glorified Hashem, saying Then also to the Nations Hashem has given teshuva unto Chayyim. 
Then the ones, that is, those having been scattered because of the tzoros that happened in connection with Stefanos, came to Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, darshenen to no one the dvar Hashem except only to Yehudim. 
And there were some of them, anashim of Cyprus and Cyrene, who having come to Antioch, were speaking also to the Yevanim, darshenen the Besuras HaGeulah of Adoneinu Yehoshua. 
The hand of Adonoi was on them and a large number, having had emunah, turned to Moshiach Adoneinu. 
The report about them was heard in the ears of the Kehillah of Moshiach in Yerushalayim, and they sent out Bar-Nabba to go to Antioch; 
Who, having come, and having seen the Chen v'Chesed Hashem, rejoiced and was encouraging everyone with deveykus (devotion) to HaAdon to remain true to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu. 
For Bar-Nabba was a mentsh, a gavra, an ish tov full of the Ruach Hakodesh and of emunah. And a great multitude was added to Adoneinu. 
And Bar-Nabba left for Tarsus to look for Sha'ul, 
And, having found him, he brought him to Antioch. And it came about that for an entire year, they met with Moshiachʼs Kehillah there, and taught a large multitude. And it was in Antioch that the talmidim were first called Ma'aminim HaMeshichiyim (Messianic Believers). 
Now in these yamim, nevi'im came down from Yerushalayim to Antioch. 
One of them, by name of Agav, having got up, indicated through the Ruach Hakodesh a great famine was about to come all over the world. And this famine actually occurred during the time of Claudius. 
Now the talmidim decided that according to their means, each of them would send support to the Achim b'Moshiach dwelling in Yehudah; 
Which also they did, having sent to the Ziknei HaKehillot by the hand of Bar-Nabba and Sha'ul. 
