Moshiachʼs Letter through the Shliach Yochanan to the Brit Chadasha Kehillah (III).
Chapter 1.
From the Zaken(Elder). To Gaius HaAhuv (Gaius the beloved), for whom I have ahavah (agape) b'Emes. 
Chaver, it is my tefillah that all may be hatzlocha (successful) with you, and that you may be shalem b'guf (healthy), just as your nefesh (soul) is matsli'ach (successful). 
For I had simcha gedola (much joy) when the Achim b'Moshiach arrived here and gave eidus (testimony) of you being in HaEmes (the Truth), just as your walk is halakhah b'Derech Emes (conduct in the Way of Truth). 
I have no greater simcha than this, to hear of my bnei b'Moshiach, that their walk is halakhah b'Derech Emes. 
Chaver, you do a thing of emunah (faith) when it is done for the Achim b'Moshiach, especially when they are people you don't know. 
They gave eidushaft (witness of testimony) to your ahavah (agape) before the kehillah (assembly) here; you will do well to send them on their way in a manner worthy of Hashem. 
For, on behalf of Hashem they went forth, taking nothing from the Goyim. 
Therefore, we ought to give hachnosas orchim (hospitality) to such, in order that we may be ozrim (helpers) with HaEmes. 
I wrote something to the kehillah there; but Diotrephes, who has fallen in love with being “Rosh of the Kehillah,” does not receive us. 
Oib azoi (consequently), if I come, I will remember his “ma'asim” (works) which he does, his bringing unjustified charges against us with lashon horah (evil speech). And not being satisfied with performing these “mitzvot”, he even refuses to receive the Achim b'Moshiach, and, those intending to do so, he hinders and expels out of the kehillah. 
Chaver, do not imitate HaRah (Evil); rather, imitate HaTov (Good). The one doing HaTov is from Hashem. The one doing HaRah has not regarded Hashem. 
To Demetrius, eidus (witness of testimony, commendation) has been given by all and, personally, by no less than HaEmes (the Truth); we also give eidus, and you have da'as that our eidus is emes. 
I had many things to write to you, but I do not want to write to you with pen and ink. 
But I have the tikvah (hope) to see you imminently, and we will speak panim el panim (directly, in person). 
Drishat Shalom to you. Drishat Shalom from the Chaverim here. Drishat Shalom by name to each of the Chaverim there.
