TEHILLIM.
Chapter 139.
(For the one directing, Mizmor of Dovid) 1Hashem, Thou hast searched me, and known me. 
Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, Thou hast binah of my thought from afar off. 
Thou comprehendeth my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my drakhim. 
For there is not a milah (word) in my leshon, but, lo, Hashem, Thou knowest it altogether. 
Thou hast enclosed me achor (behind) and kedem (before), and laid Thine hand upon me. 
Such da'as is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain unto it. 
To where can I go from Thy Ruach? Or to where shall I flee from Thy presence? 
If I ascend up into Shomayim, Thou art there; if I make my bed in Sheol, hinei, Thou art there. 
If I take the wings of the shachar (dawn), and dwell in the uttermost acharit yam (the extreme end of the sea); 
Even there shall Thy yad lead me, and Thy yamin shall hold me. 
If I say, Surely the choshech shall cover me, even the lailah shall be ohr about me. 
Even the choshech is not dark to Thee; but the lailah shineth as the yom; the choshech and the ohr are both alike to Thee. 
For Thou hast possessed my inmost being; Thou didst interweave me in the beten immi. 
I will praise Thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; marvellous are Thy ma'asim; and that my nefesh knoweth very well. 
My atzamim (bones, frame) were not hid from Thee, when I was made beseter (in secret), and skillfully wrought in the depths of the Eretz. 
Thine eyes did see my golem (embryo), yet being unformed; and in Thy Sefer (Book) all the yamim (days) ordained for me were written down, when as yet there were none of them. 
How precious also are Thy thoughts unto me, O El! How great is the sum of them! 
If I should count them, they are more in number than the chol (sand); when I awake, I am still with Thee. 
Surely Thou wilt slay the rasha, O Eloah; depart from me therefore, ye anshei damim (bloodthirsty men). 
For they speak of Thee craftily, and it is taken lashav by Thy enemies. 
Should not I hate them, Hashem, that hate Thee? And am not I to be at odds with those that rise up against Thee? 
I abhor them with complete sinah; I count them mine enemies. 
Search me, O El, and know my levav; test me, and know my thoughts; 
And see if there be any derech otzev (torturous crooked road) in me, and lead me in the Derech Olam. 
