YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 30.
The Davar that came to Yirmeyah from Hashem, saying, 
Thus speaketh Hashem Elohei Yisroel, saying, Write thee all the Devarim that I have spoken unto thee in a sefer. 
For, hinei, the days are coming, saith Hashem, that I will bring back from captivity My people Yisroel and Yehudah, saith Hashem; and I will cause them to return to ha'aretz that I gave to their avot, and they shall possess it. 
And these are the Devarim that Hashem spoke concerning Yisroel and concerning Yehudah. 
For thus saith Hashem: We have heard a cry of fear, of pachad (terror), and not of shalom. 
Ask ye now, and see whether a zachar (male) doth travail with child? Why do I see every gever with his hands on his stomach, like a woman in labor, and all faces are turned deadly pale? 
Alas! For gadol hayom, so that none is like it; it is even the Et (Time) of Tzarah l'Ya'akov (Jacobʼs Trouble), but he shall be saved out of it. 
For it shall come to pass in that day, saith Hashem Tzva'os, that I will break his yoke from off thy tzavar (neck), and will burst thy bonds, and zarim (foreigners) shall no more make a slave of him; 
But they shall serve Hashem Eloheihem, and Dovid their Melech, whom I will raise up for them. 
Therefore, fear thou not, O Avdi Ya'akov, saith Hashem; neither be dismayed, O Yisroel; for, hineni, I will save thee from afar, and thy zera from the eretz of their captivity; and Ya'akov shall return, and shall be at rest, and be secure, and none shall make him afraid. 
For I am with thee, saith Hashem, to save thee; though I make a full end of all Goyim where I have scattered thee, yet I will not make a full end of thee; but I will correct thee in mishpat, and will not leave thee altogether unpunished. 
For thus saith Hashem: Thy bruise is incurable, and thy makkah (blow, wound) is grievous. 
There is none to uphold thy cause, no refu'ot for your wound, no healing for you. 
All thy lovers have forgotten thee; they seek thee not; for I have wounded thee with the makkat oyev, with the musar (chastisement) of a cruel one, for the multitude of thine avon, because thy sins were increased. 
Why dost thou cry out over thine affliction? Thy pain is incurable for the multitude of thine avon; because thy chattot were increased, I have done these things unto thee. 
Therefore all they that devour thee shall be devoured; and all thine adversaries, every one of them, shall go into captivity; and they that plunder thee shall become plunder, and all that prey upon thee will I give for prey. 
For I will restore health unto thee, and I will heal thee of thy makkot (wounds), saith Hashem; because they called thee a Nidachah (Outcast), saying: This is Tziyon, whom no one careth for. 
Thus saith Hashem: Hineni, I will bring back the captivity of Ya'akovʼs ohalim, and have compassion on his dwelling places; and the Ir shall be rebuilt upon her own ruins, and the armon (citadel) shall stand on its rightful site. 
And out of them shall proceed todah (thanksgiving) and the voice of them that rejoice; and I will multiply them, and they shall not be few; I will also honor them, and they shall not be disdained. 
Their banim also shall be as formerly, and their Edah (Congregation) shall be established before Me, and I will punish all that oppress them. 
And their Adir (Prince, Leader) shall be one of their own, and their Moshel (ruler) shall proceed from the midst of them; and I will cause him to draw near, and he shall approach unto Me; for who is this that devoted his lev to approach unto Me? 
And ye shall be My people, and I will be your Elohim. 
Hinei, the whirlwind of Hashem goeth forth with chemah (wrath, fury), a sweeping whirlwind; it shall fall violently upon the rosh of the resha'im. 
The Charon Af Hashem shall not return, until He hath accomplished it, and until He have performed the mezimmot (intents, purposes) of His lev; in the acharit hayamim (latter days) ye shall understand this. 
At the same time, saith Hashem, I will be Elohim l'khol mishpekhot Yisroel, and they shall be My people. 
