MATTITYAHU.
Chapter 27.
Now when boker had come, all the Rashei Hakohenim and the Ziknei HaAm took counsel together against Yehoshua to put him to death. 
And having performed the akedah (binding), they led him away, and delivered him up to Pilate the Governor. 
Then when Yehudah, who had betrayed Moshiach, saw that Yehoshua had been condemned, he felt remorse and returned the sheloshim shiklei kesef (thirty pieces of silver) to the Rashei Hakohanim and the Zekenim, 
saying Chatati (I have sinned). I have betrayed dahm naki (innocent blood). But they said, What is that to us? See to that yourself! 
And Yehudah threw the shiklei kesef (pieces of silver) into the Beis Hamikdash and departed; and, having gone away, Yehudah hanged himself. 
And the Rashei Hakohanim took the shiklei kesef and said, It is asur (forbidden) to put these into the Beis Hamikdash otzar (treasury), vi-bahlt (since) it is blood money. 
And they took counsel together and they bought the Potterʼs Field as a beis hakevoros (cemetery) for zarim (foreigners). 
For this reason that field has been called the Sadeh HaDahm (Field of Blood) to this day. 
Then that which was spoken through Yirmeyah HaNavi was fulfilled, saying, And they took the SHELOSHIM KASEF (thirty pieces of silver), HAYEKAR (the price) of the one whose price had been set by the Bnei Yisroel. 
And they gave them for the potters field as Hashem directed me (Zech 11:12-13). 
Now Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach stood before the Governor, and the Governor questioned Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach saying, Are you the Melech HaYehudim? And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to him, It is as you say. 
And while Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was being accused by the Rashei Hakohanim and the Zekenim, he answered nothing. 
Then Pilate said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Do you not hear how many things they give edut against you? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach did not answer him with even one word, so that the Governor was quite amazed. 
Now at the Chag (Festival, Pesach) the Governor was accustomed to release for the multitude any one prisoner they wanted. 
And they were holding at the time a notorious prisoner, called Bar-Abba. 
When, therefore, they were gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want me to release for you, Bar-Abba or Yehoshua called Moshiach? 
For Pilate knew that because of kinah (envy) they had delivered Yehoshua up. 
And while Pilate was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, Have nothing to do with that Tzaddik; for last night I suffered greatly in a chalom (dream) because of Yehoshua. 
However, the Rashei Hakohanim and the Zekenim persuaded the multitudes to ask for Bar-Abba, but Yehoshua they should destroy. 
But the Governor answered, saying to them, Which of the two do you want me to release for you? And they said, Bar-Abba. 
In reply, Pilate says to them, What, therefore, may I do with Yehoshua, the one called the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach? Everyone says, Let him be made TALUI AL HAETZ (being hanged on the Tree!) Be hanged on HAETZ! 
But Pilate said, Why? What rah (evil) has he done? But they kept shouting all the more, saying, Let him be hanged on HAETZ! 
And when Pilate saw that he was accomplishing nothing, but rather that a riot was starting, he took water and washed his hands in front of the multitude, saying, I am innocent of this manʼs blood; see to that yourselves. 
And, in reply, all the people said, His dahm be on us and on our yeladim. 
Then Pilate released Bar-Abba to them. But after having Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach scourged, he handed him over to be hanged on HAETZ. 
Then the soldiers of the Governor took him into the praetorium and gathered the whole cohort against Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And they stripped him and put a royal scarlet robe on him, and, 
After weaving a keter of thorns, they placed it on his head and put a reed in his right hand, and they fell down before him and mocked him saying, Hail, Melech HaYehudim! 
And they spat on Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and took the reed and began to beat him on the head. 
And after they had made leitzonus (mockery) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, they took off his robe and put his garments on him, and led him away to hang him on HAETZ. 
And as they were coming out, they found a man from Cyrene named Shim'on, whom they pressed into service to bear Moshiachʼs Etz. 
And when they had come to a place called Gulgolta, which means place of a skull, 
They gave him wine to drink mingled with gall. And, after tasting it, he was unwilling to drink. 
When they had hanged Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach on HAETZ, they divided up Moshiachʼs garments among themselves, casting lots; 
And, sitting down, they began to keep watch over him there. 
They put up above his head the charge against him which read, this is yehoshua, melech hayehudim. 
At that time, two shodedim were each hanged on his own etz with Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, one on the right and one on the left. 
And those passing by were hurling insults at Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, wagging their heads, 
And saying, You who are going to cause the churban (destruction) of the Beis Hamikdash and rebuild it in shloshah yamim (three days), save yourself! If you are the Ben HaElohim, come down from HAETZ (the Tree). 
Likewise, also the Rashei Hakohanim along with the Sofrim and Zekenim, were mocking him, and saying, 
He saved others; yet himself he is not able to save. He is Melech Yisroel? Let him now come down from the Etz, and we shall have emunah in him. 
He trusts in Hashem; let Hashem be his Moshi'a (Deliverer) and deliver him now, if Hashem takes pleasure in him, for this one said, Ben HaElohim Ani! 
And the shodedim (robbers), hanging, each on his etz, with him, were casting similar insults at Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, reproaching him. 
Now, from the sixth hour, choshech fell upon all the land until the ninth hour. 
And about the ninth hour, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach cried out with a kol gadol, saying Eli, Eli, lemah sabachthani! (that is, My G-d, my G-d, why hast thou forsaken me? Ps 22:2 1). 
And some of those who were standing there, when they heard, began saying, This one calls for Eliyahu HaNavi. 
And immediately one of them ran and, taking a sponge, filled it with sour wine and put it on a reed and gave him a drink. 
But the rest of them said, Wait. We will see whether Eliyahu HaNavi will come to save him. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach cried out again with a loud voice, and dismissed his ruach. 
And hinei! The parochet of the Beis Hamikdash was torn in two from top to bottom, and the earth shook; and the rocks were split, 
And the kevarim (graves) were opened, and many gufot (bodies) of the kedoshim who had fallen asleep were made to stand up alive. 
And coming out of the kevarim after the Techiyas HaMoshiach, they entered the Ir Hakodesh (Holy City) and appeared to many. 
Now when the centurion, and those who were with him keeping shomer (guard) over Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, saw the earthquake and the things that were happening, they became very frightened and said, Truly this was the Ben HaElohim. 
And many nashim were there, looking on from a distance, who had followed Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach from the Galil and had ministered to him. 
Among them was Miryam of Magdala, Miryam the Em of Ya'akov and Yosef, and the Em of Zavdaiʼs sons. 
And when it was erev, there came an oisher (rich man) from Ramatayim named Yosef who himself had also become a talmid of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
This man went to Pilate and asked for the gufat Yehoshua. Then Pilate ordered it to be given over to Yosef. 
And Yosef took the gufat Yehoshua, and wrapped it in the tachrichim, 
and laid it in Yosefʼs own new kever, which he had hewn out in the rock; and he rolled a large stone against the entrance of the kever (tomb) and went away. 
And Miryam of Magdala, and the other Miryam, stayed there, sitting opposite the kever. 
Now on the next day, which is the one after the Preparation, the Rashei Hakohanim and the Perushim gathered together with Pilate 
and said, Sir, we remember that when he was still alive that mateh (deceiver) said, After shloshah yamim I am to stand up alive. 
Therefore, give orders for the kever to be made secure until the Yom HaShlishi (the Third Day), lest his talmidim come and steal him away and say to the people, He has stood up alive from the mesim. And the last deception will be worse than the first. 
Pilate said to them, You have a guard, go make the kever as secure as you know how. 
And they went and made the kever secure, and, along with the guard, they set a seal on the stone. 
