Besuras Hageulah according to Markos.
Chapter 1.
The Beginning of the Besuras HaGeulah (the Good News of Redemption) of Yehoshua, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach the Ben HaElohim. 
Just as it has been written in Yeshayah HaNavi, HINNENI SHOLEIACH MALACHI (Behold, I send my messenger) before your face, UPINNAH DERECH LEFANAI (and he will prepare the way before me), he will prepare your way. 
KOL KOREY BAMIDBAR(A voice of one shouting in the wilderness): Prepare the Derech Hashem(the way of the L-rd). Make his paths yashar (straight)! 
Yochanan came with a mikveh mayim in the midbar, preaching a tevilah of teshuva for the selichat avon. 
And all Yehudah and all Yerushalayim were going out to him, and they were submitted to a tevilah using the Yarden River as a mikveh mayim, making vidduy of their averos (sins). 
And Yochanan had camel hair clothing and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was arbe and devash. 
And he was preaching, crying out as a maggid, saying, Hu Habah (He who Comes) after me has more chozek (strength) than me. I am not worthy to stoop down and remove his sandals. 
I give you a tevilah in a mikveh mayim, but he will give you a tevilah in the Ruach Hakodesh. 
And it was during that period that Yehoshua from Natzeret of the Galil came and submitted to Yochananʼs tevilah in the mikveh mayim of the Yarden. 
And ofen ort Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach came up out of the mikveh mayim, and he saw Shomayim being torn open, the Ruach Hakodesh of Hashem descending like a yonah on him. 
And there was a bat kol out of Shomayim, ATAH BNI AHUVI ASHER BCHA CHAFATSTI (You are my Son, the beloved, with whom I am well pleased). 
Then the Ruach Hakodesh ofen ort thrusts him out into the midbar. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was in the midbar arba'im yom varbaim lailah, undergoing nisyonos by HaSatan; and he was with the chayyat hassadeh(wild beasts), and the malachim were the meshartei Hashem ministering to Moshiach. 
Now after Yochanan was arrested, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach came to the Galil, darshenen (preaching) the Besuras HaGeulah of Hashem, 
And saying, The appointed time has been fulfilled and the Malchut Hashem has come near. Make teshuva, and have emunah in the Besuras HaGeulah. 
And passing along beside Sea of Galilee, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach saw Shim'on and Andrew, the brother of Shim'on, casting a reshet into the sea, for they were daiyagim (fishermen). 
And he said to them, Come, follow me, and I will make you to become daiyagei adam. 
And ofen ort, leaving their nets, they followed Moshiach. 
And going on a little, he saw Ya'akov Ben Zavdai and Yochanan his brother, who were also in the sirah (boat) repairing the nets. 
And ofen ort he summoned them; and, leaving Zavdai their father in the sirah with the sachirim (hired workers), they went away to follow Moshiach. 
And they enter into K'far-Nachum, and ofen ort on Shabbos, entering into the shul, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach exercised the ministry of moreh (teacher). 
And they were astounded at Moshiachʼs torah (teaching), for he was teaching them as one having samchut, and not as the Sofrim. 
And, ofen ort, there was in their shul a man with a ruach hatameh, and he shouted, 
Saying, Yehoshua of Natzeret, mah lanu vlach? (What to us and to you?) Have you come to bring us churban (destruction)? I have daas who you are, HaKadosh of Hashem(the Holy One of G-d). 
But he rebuked the shed, saying, Shekit! Gey zich! And come out of him. 
And, the ruach hatumah, throwing him into convulsions, let out a shrai and came out of him. 
And all were astounded so that they began to discuss with each other, saying, What is this? Torah Chadasha with samchut? He gives orders to the shedim and they obey him? 
And the besuroh (news) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach ofen ort (immediately) went forth everywhere into the surrounding region of the Galil. 
And ofen ort (immediately), coming out of shul, they went into the bais (house) of Shim'on and Andrew with Ya'akov and Yochanan. 
And the chamot (shviger, mother-in-law) of Shim'on was bedridden and fever-stricken, and ofen ort (immediately) they tell Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach about her. 
And approaching, holding her hand, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach lifted her up, and the kaddachat(fever) left her, and she then began functioning as their mesharetet (servant, keli kodesh, lady minister), waiting on them. 
When erev (evening) came, with the setting of the shemesh (sun), they brought to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach all the cholim (sick persons) and all those possessed by shedim (demons). 
And the whole shtetl gathered together at the delet (door). 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach administered refuah (healing) to many cholim (sick persons) suffering from various machlot (illnessess), and he cast out many shedim (demons). And he did not permit the shedim to give utterance, for the shedim knew the raz (mystery, secret) of his identity, that he was the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And very early, while it was still dark, having got up, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach went out and away to a desolate place, and was davening shacharis there. 
And Shim'on and those with him searched for Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And they found Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and they say to him, Everyone is seeking you. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Let us go elsewhere into the neighboring shtetlach, so that also there I may preach. For it was for this purpose, tachlis I came. 
And he came preaching in their shuls (synagogues) and casting out shedim in the whole region of the Galil. 
And an ish metzorah (leper) comes to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach begging him and kneeling down and saying, If you are willing, you are able to make me tahor (clean). 
And being filled with rachmei Shomayim and stretching out his hand, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach touched the man and says to him, I am willing. Be made tahor. 
And ofen ort (immediately) the ish metzorah (leper) went away from Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and he was made tahor. 
And having sternly warned him, ofen ort (immediately) Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach sent him away. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to him, See that you say nothing to anyone, but rather go show yourself to the kohen and offer the korban for the tohorah (purification) of you which Moshe (Rabbeinu) gave mitzvah, for an edut (testimony) to them. 
But the one having gone out began to preach many things and to spread the dvar, so that no longer was Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach able to openly enter into a shtetl, but he was outside in desolate places. And they were coming to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach from every direction. 
