YOCHANAN.
Chapter 21.
After these things Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach manifested himself again to His talmidim at Lake Tiberias. Now Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was manifested thus. 
Together there were Shim'on Kefa and T'oma (his name means Twin) and Natan'el, the one from Kanah in the Galil and the Bnei Zavdai and two others of the talmidim of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
Shim'on Kefa says to them, I am going to fish. They say to Shim'on Kefa, We are coming also with you. They went forth and embarked into the sirah. And during that lailah they caught not one thing. 
Now when the beginning of Shacharis had already come, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach stood on the shore. The talmidim had not, however, realized it was he. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says, therefore, to them, Yeladim, surely not any dagim (fish) you have? In reply, they said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Lo. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Throw the reshet (net) to the right side of the sirah (boat), and you will find dagim. Therefore, they threw it. And now they were not strong enough to draw in the reshet (net), because of the multitude of dagim. 
Therefore, the talmid ha'ahuv says to Shim'on Kefa, It is Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu! Therefore, Shim'on Kefa, having heard this, strapped his gartel around his kaftan, for he was unclothed, and threw himself into the sea. 
But the other talmidim in the sirah, for they were not far from the land but about two hundred cubits out, came dragging the reshet of the dagim. 
Therefore, when the talmidim disembarked onto the shore, they see a hadlakah (bonfire) there and dagim lying on it and lechem. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Bring some from the dagim which you caught now. 
Therefore, Shim'on Kefa went up and dragged the reshet (net) onto the shore, full of large dagim, me'ah vchamishim ushloshah (one hundred and fifty three), and, though being so many, did not split the reshet (net). 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Come, eat! Now not one of the talmidim was daring to ask him, Who are you? — having had da'as that it is Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach comes and takes the lechem and gives to them, likewise the dagim. 
This was now the shlishit (third) time Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, having been made to stand up alive from the mesim, was manifested to the talmidim. 
Then when they ate, he says to Shim'on Kefa, Shim'on Bar-Yochanan, do you have ahavah for me more than these? Shim'on Kefa says to him, Ken, Adoni, You have da'as that I have ahavah for You. He says to him, Feed My lambs. 
He again a second time says to him, Shim'on Bar-Yochanan, do you have ahavah for me? Shim'on Kefa says to him, Ken, Adoni, You have da'as that I have ahavah for You. He says to him, Take care of My sheep. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to him the shlishit time, Shim'on Bar-Yochanan, do you have ahavah for me? Kefa was grieved because Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to him the shlishit time, Do you have ahavah for me? And he says to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Adoni, You have da'as of all things. You have da'as that I have ahavah for You. Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to him, Feed My kevasim. 
Omein, omein, I say to you, that when you were young, you were girding yourself and were walking where you wanted, but when you grow old you will extend your hands and another will gird you and carry you where you do not wish to go. 
And this He said signifying by what mavet Shim'on Kefa will glorify Hashem. After this, He said to him, Follow Me. 
Having turned, Kefa sees the talmid ha'ahuv following them, who also was reclining at tish during the seudah upon the kheyk of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, and this talmid was the one who had said Adoni, who is the one betraying you? 
Then Kefa, having seen this one, says to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Adoni, and what about this man? 
He says to him, If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow Me. 
Therefore, a rumor went out saying to the achim B'Moshiach that that talmid would not die. But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach did not tell him that he would not die, but rather, If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? 
This is the talmid, the one giving solemn edut (testimony) about these things, and the one having written these things and we have da'as that his edut is emes. 
And there are many other things which Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach did, which if they are written one by one, not the Olam Hazeh itself I suppose would have room enough for the sfarim being written.
