Romans.
Chapter 2.
For in that you pass judgment on the other, you condemn yourself; for you practice the very things on which you pass judgment. 
And we have da'as that the judgment of Hashem HaShofet against those who practice such things is in accordance with HaEmes Hashem. 
You, sir, you who pass judgment on those who practice such things and yet do the same yourself, do you suppose then that you will escape the Mishpat Hashem? 
Or do you think lightly of the wealth of his nedivut (generosity) and of his chesed and of his being ERECH APAYIM (slow of anger, forbearing) and of his savlanut (patience), disregarding the fact that the Chesed Hashem(the kindness of G-d) is to lead you to teshuva? 
As a result of your KESHI(stubbornness, hardness) and your levavot without teshuva, you are storing up for yourself Charon Af Hashem(the burning anger of G-d) in the Yom Af (the Day of Wrath), when will be revealed the Mishpat HaTzedek of Hashem, 
Who will render L'ISH K'MA'A'SEI HU(to each according to his works). 
To those who, by savlanut (patience), persevere in doing hatov (the good), seek for kavod (glory) and honor and incorruptibility, He will give Chayyei Olam (Eternal Life). 
But to those who are self-seeking and who have no mishma'at (obedience) to HaEmes Hashem, but instead have mishma'at to resha, there will be Charon Af Hashem and fury. 
There will be affliction and distress on every living neshamah who brings about what is rah (evil), Yehudi above all and Yevani (Greek) as well. 
But tiferet and kavod and shalom to everyone who brings about what is tov (good), Yehudi above all and Yevani as well. 
For ki ein masso panim im Hashem(there is no partiality with Hashem). 
For as many as have committed averos and sinned lacking the Torah shall also perish lacking the Torah; and as many as have committed averos (sin) under the Torah shall be condemned under the Torah. 
For it is not the Shomei HaTorah (hearers of the Law of Moshe Rabbeinu) who are the tzaddikim who are accounted to be YITZDAK IM HASHEM (justified with G-d). It is the Shomrei HaTorah (the keepers of the Torah) who will be counted to be YITZDAK IM HASHEM. 
For when non-Jews who have not a Torah, may do by nature what the Torah requires, they not having a Torah are a gezetz (law) for themselves, 
In that they demonstrate the Torah at work, the Torah written in their levavot, their matzpun(conscience) also bearing witness, while their thoughts bring accusation or even make defense among themselves, 
In the Yom when, according to my Besuras HaGeulah, Hashem, through Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua, is to judge the secrets of kol Bnei Adam (all men). 
But if you are called by the name Yehudi (Jew) and rely on the Torah and boast in Hashem, 
And have da'as of His will and approve the things that matter, being instructed from the Torah, 
And being confident that you are a moreh derech (guide) of the ivrim (blind ones), an ohr for those in choshech, 
A rabbinic moreh (teacher) of the foolish, a melammed (instructor) of the young, having the embodiment of da'as (knowledge) and Emes in the Torah… 
You, then, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach LO TIGNOV(Do not steal!), do you steal? 
You who say, LO TINAF(Do not commit adultery!), do you commit adultery? You who abhor elilim (idols), do you rob pagan temples? 
You who boast in Torah, through deviating from the Torah, you commit Chillul Hashem. 
As it is written, Among the Goyim KOL HAYOM HASHEM HAELOHIM MINNO'ATZ(All the day long the Name of G-d is being blasphemed) because of you. 
For the milah (circumcision) is an asset if you stand in mishma'at (obedience) to the Torah. But if you are mefir (violator) of the Torah, your milah (circumcision) has become “orlah” (uncircumcision). 
If then the ben Adam without milah who is shomer fulfilling the just requirements of the Torah, will not his orlah (uncircumcision) be counted as “milah”? 
And the naturally uncircumcised ben Adam who has mishma'at (obedience) to the Torah will arise as a judgment on you. You! The very one who through chumra (stringency, strict adherence to the letter of the law) and circumcision are the transgressor of Torah! 
For the true Yehudi (Jew) is not the one humanly perceived as such, nor true milah that which is performed visibly in the flesh; 
The true Yehudi is so in Hashemʼs hidden way, and true milah is of the lev, in the hitkhadshut (renewal) of the Ruach Hakodesh, not in chumra (stringency, boasting of zokheh in machmir meritorious strict) letter. He has y'hodeh (praise) that comes not from Bnei Adam but from Hashem. 
