YESHAYAH.
Chapter 34.
Come near, ye Goyim, to hear; and pay heed, ye peoples; let ha'aretz hear, and all that is therein; the tevel (world), and all things that come forth of it. 
For the ketzef Hashem(wrath of Hashem) is upon kol HaGoyim, and His chemah (fury, wrath) upon all their tz'va; He hath utterly destroyed them, He hath delivered them to the tevach (slaughter). 
Their slain also shall be cast out, and their stench shall go up out of their pegarim (corpses), and the harim shall be drenched with their dahm. 
And kol Tz'va HaShomayim (all the host of heaven) shall be dissolved, and the Shomayim shall be rolled up like a sefer; and all their tz'va shall fall, like the aleh (leaf) falleth from the gefen, like that falling from the te'enah (fig tree). 
For My cherev shall be satiated in Shomayim; hinei, it shall come down upon Edom, and shall descend on the Am (people) of My Cherem (ban of destruction) in mishpat. 
The Cherev Hashem(Sword of Hashem) is filled with dahm, it is gorged with chelev, and with the dahm of lambs and goats, with the chelev of the kidneys of rams; for Hashem hath a zevach in Botzrah, and a tevach gadol in Eretz Edom. 
And the re'emim (wild oxen) shall fall with them, and the bull calves with the bulls; and their land shall be soaked with dahm, and their aphar (dust) enriched with chelev. 
For it is the Yom Nakam L'Hashem(Day of Vengeance unto Hashem), and the Shnat Shillumim (Year of Retributions) for the cause of Tziyon. 
And the streams thereof shall be turned into zefet (pitch, tar), and the aphar (dust) thereof into gofrit (burning sulfur), and the land thereof shall become burning zefet (pitch, tar). 
It shall not be quenched lailah v'yomam; the ashan (smoke) thereof shall go up l'olam (forever); from dor to dor it shall lie desolate; none shall pass through it l'netzach netzachim. 
But the desert owl and the screech owl shall possess it; even the yanshuf (great owl) and the orev (raven) shall dwell in it; and He shall stretch out upon it the measuring line of tohu, and the plumbline of vohu. 
For the nobles thereof there shall be nothing to call a maluchah (kingdom) and all her sarim shall come to naught. 
And sirim (thorns) shall come up in her citadels, nettles and brambles in the strongholds thereof; and it shall become the habitation of jackals, and the abode for banot ya'anah (ostriches). 
The tziyyim (martens) shall also encounter iyyim (wild cats), and a sa'ir (wild goat) calls to its companion, and lilit (night creature) dwells there and finds for itself a mano'ach (place of rest). 
There shall the kipoz (bittern) nest, and lay eggs, and hatch and care for young under her tzel; there shall the dayyot (kites, vultures) also be gathered, every one with its mate. 
Search ye out in the Sefer Hashem, and read; no one of these creatures shall fail, none shall lack her mate; for My mouth hath commanded, and His Ruach hath gathered them. 
And He hath cast the goral (lot) for them, and His Yad hath made the land assignment unto them by measuring line; they shall possess it ad olam, from dor to dor shall they dwell therein. 
