GEVUROT MEYRUACH HAKODESH.
Chapter 12.
Now during that time Herod the king laid his hands on Moshiachʼs Kehillah to harm some of them. 
He killed Ya'akov the ach Yochanan with a cherev (sword). 
Having seen that this was pleasing to the Judeans, Herod proceeded to arrest Kefa also. This happened during the yamim of Chag HaMatzot. 
When he had Kefa seized, he put him in the beis hasohar, having handed him over to four squads of chaiyalim to guard him, intending after Pesach to bring him before the people. 
Therefore, Kefa was being kept in the beis hasohar. But tefillah to Hashem was earnestly being made by Moshiachʼs Kehillah for him. 
But b'lailah, when Herod was about to lead him out, Kefa, bound with two sharsherot (chains), was sleeping between two chaiyalim; and, before the delet (door), were shomrim (guards) keeping watch over the beis hasohar. 
Then a malach HaAdon approached and ohr (light) shone in the cheder (room), and, having struck the side of Kefa, he awoke him, saying, Get up quickly! And the kavlei varzel (shackles of iron) fell off his hands. 
The malach said to Kefa, Put on your gartel and tie your sandals. And Kefa did so. And the malach says to him, Put on your kaftan and follow me. 
And having gone out, Kefa was following the malach, and he did not have da'as that the thing was happening grahda (as a matter of fact, in reality), but he was thinking he was seeing a chazon through the malach. 
And having gone through the shomrim (guards), the first and the second, they came upon the Sha'ar HaBarzel leading to the Ir Kodesh. This was opened to them by itself. And having gone out, they went along one rekhov (street), and immediately the malach went away from him. 
And Kefa, having come to himself, said, Now I have da'as for sure that HaAdon sent out his malach and delivered me from the hand of Herod and from all the expectation of the Judean people. 
Having realized this, Kefa came upon the bais of Miryam the Em (mother) of Yochanan, the one being called Markos, where there were many having been assembled and davening. 
And when Kefa knocked on the delet (door) of the gate, a na'arah by name Rhoda, approached to listen. 
And having recognized the kol (voice) of Kefa, from simcha she did not open the gate but, having run inside, she reported that Kefa stood at the gate. 
But the ones there said to her, You are meshuggah! But she kept insisting it was so. But they were saying, It is his malach. 
But Kefa continued knocking. And having opened the gate, they saw him, and were nispoyel (standing in awe). 
And having motioned to them with his hand to be silent, he told them how HaAdon led him out from the beis hasohar. Then Kefa said, Report to Ya'akov and to the Achim b'Moshiach these things. And having gone out, Kefa went to another place. 
Now when it was boker, there was not a little commotion among the chaiyalim as to what had become of Kefa. 
Now Herod, having sought after him and not having found him, after questioning the shomrim, commanded them to be led away to execution. Then Herod went down from Yehudah to Caesarea, and was staying there. 
Now Herod was gor (very) angry with the people of Tzor and those of Tzidon, and with one mind they were coming to him; and, having won over Blastus, the kingʼs chamberlain, they were requesting shalom, because their country was fed by the kingʼs lands. 
Now on the appointed day, Herod, having clothed himself with royal malbush (clothing) and having sat down on the kes hamishpat, was delivering a public address to them. 
And the multitude was crying out, Hinei, the kol of a g-d and not of an ish! 
Immediately, a malach Adonoi struck him, because he did not give the kavod to Hashem. And, having become eaten with worms, Herod died. 
But the dvar Hashem was growing and increasing. 
And Bar-Nabba and Sha'ul returned from Yerushalayim, having fulfilled their shlichus (mission) to deliver the tzedakah and having taken along with them back to Antioch, Yochanan the one called Markos. 
