SHMUEL ALEF.
Chapter 3.
And the na'ar Shmuel ministered unto Hashem before Eli. And the Devar Hashem was yakar (precious, dear, rare) in those days; there was no chazon nifratz prophetic vision open, spread out, common. 
And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was lying down in his makom (his eyes had began to grow dim, that he could not see); 
And the Ner Elohim had not yet gone out in the Heikhal Hashem, where the Aron Elohim was, and Shmuel was lying down; 
That Hashem called Shmuel; and he answered, Hineni. 
And he ran unto Eli, and said, Hineni; for thou calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down. 
And Hashem called yet again, Shmuel. And Shmuel got up and went to Eli, and said, Hineni; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, beni; lie down again. 
Now Shmuel did not yet know Hashem; the Devar Hashem was not yet revealed unto him. 
And Hashem called Shmuel again the third time. And he got up and went to Eli, and said, Hineni; for thou didst call me. And Eli perceived that Hashem was calling the na'ar. 
Therefore Eli said unto Shmuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if He call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Hashem; for Thy eved (servant) shomei'a (is listening). So Shmuel went and lay down in his makom. 
And Hashem came, and stood, and called as at other times, Shmuel, Shmuel. Then Shmuel answered, Speak; for Thy eved shomei'a. 
And Hashem said to Shmuel, Hinei, I am doing a thing in Yisroel, at which both the oznayim of every one that heareth it shall tingle. 
In that day I will perform against Eli all things which I have spoken concerning his Bais; from beginning even to the end. 
For I have told him that I will judge his Bais ad olam for the avon (iniquity) which he knoweth; because his banim brought klalot (curses) upon themselves, and he restrained them not. 
And therefore I have sworn unto the Bais Eli, that there shall be no kapporah for the avon Bais Eli by zevach nor minchah ad olam. 
And Shmuel lay until boker, and opened the dlatot Beis Hashem. And Shmuel feared to show Eli the mareh (vision). 
Then Eli called Shmuel, and said, Shmuel, beni. And he answered, Hineni. 
And he said, What is the davar that Hashem hath said unto thee? Now hide it not from me; Elohim do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that He said unto thee. 
And Shmuel told him everything, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Hashem; let Him do what seemeth Him tov. 
And Shmuel grew, and Hashem was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground. 
And kol Yisroel from Dan even to Be'er-Sheva knew that Shmuel was established to be a navi of Hashem. 
And Hashem appeared again in Shiloh; for Hashem revealed Himself to Shmuel in Shiloh by the Devar Hashem. 
