BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 34.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Command the Bnei Yisroel, and say unto them, When ye come into Eretz Kena'an (this is HaAretz that shall fall unto you for a nachalah, even Eretz Kena'an with the borders thereof), 
Then your southern side shall be from the Midbar Tzin along by the border of Edom, and your southern border shall be from the edge of the Yam HaMelach (Salt Sea, Dead Sea) to the east; 
And your border shall turn from the south of Ma'aleh Akrabbim, and pass on to Tzin; and the going forth thereof shall be from the south of Kadesh-Barnea, and shall go on to Chatzar Addar, and pass on to Atzmon; 
And the border shall go around from Atzmon unto the Wadi of Mitzrayim, and the goings out of it shall be toward the Sea. 
And as for the western border, ye shall even have the Yam HaGadol for a border; this shall be your west border. 
And this shall be your northern border: from the Yam HaGadol ye shall run to Mt Hor; 
From Mt Hor ye shall run your border unto the approach to Chamat; and the goings forth of the border shall be toward Tzedad; 
And the border shall go on to Ziphron, and the goings out of it shall be Chatzar Einan; this shall be your northern border. 
And ye shall draw a line for you for an eastern border from Chatzar Einan to Shepham; 
And the border shall go down from Shepham to Rivlah, on the east side of Ayin; the border shall descend, and shall reach unto the bank of the Yam Kinneret to the east; 
And the border shall go down to the Yarden, and the goings out of it shall be at the Yam HaMelach; this shall be your land with the borders thereof all around. 
And Moshe commanded the Bnei Yisroel, saying, This is the land which ye shall inherit by goral, which Hashem commanded to give unto the nine mattot (tribes), and to the half tribe; 
For the tribe of the Bnei Reuven according to the bais avotam, and the tribe of the Bnei Gad according to the bais avotam and the half tribe of Menasheh have received their nachalah; 
The two tribes and the half tribe have received their nachalah on the east side of the Yarden near Yericho toward the sunrise. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
These are the shmot of the anashim which shall apportion HaAretz unto you; El'azar HaKohen, and Yehoshua Ben Nun. 
And ye shall take one nasi of every matteh to possess HaAretz. 
And the shmot of the anashim are these: Of the tribe of Yehudah, Kalev Ben Yephunneh; 
And of the tribe of the Bnei Shim'on, Shmuel Ben Ammihud; 
Of the tribe of Binyamin, Elidad Ben Kislon; 
And the nasi of the tribe of the Bnei Dan, Bukki Ben Yogli; 
The nasi of the Bnei Yosef, for the tribe of the Bnei Menasheh, Channi'el Ben Ephod; 
And the nasi of the tribe of the Bnei Ephrayim, Kemuel Ben Shiphtan; 
And the nasi of the tribe of the Bnei Zevulun, Elitzaphan Ben Parnakh; 
And the nasi of the tribe of the Bnei Yissakhar, Palt'iel Ben Azzan; 
And the nasi of the tribe of the Bnei Asher, Achihud Ben Shelomi; 
And the nasi of the tribe of the Bnei Naphtali, Pedahel Ben Ammihud; 
These are they whom Hashem commanded to apportion the inheritance unto the Bnei Yisroel in Eretz Kena'an. 
