DEVARIM.
Chapter 30.
And it shall come to pass, when all these things are come upon thee, the brocha and the kelalah, which I have set before thee, and thou shalt cause them to return to thy heart among kol HaGoyim, whither Hashem Eloheicha hath driven thee, 
And shalt return unto Hashem Eloheicha, and shalt obey His voice according to all that I command thee today, thou and thy banim, bekhol levavcha uvekhol nafshecha; 
That then Hashem Eloheicha will bring you back from the golus, and have compassion upon thee, and will return and gather thee from kol ha'amim whither Hashem Eloheicha hath dispersed thee. 
If any of thine be driven out unto the outmost parts of Shomayim, from thence will Hashem Eloheicha gather thee, and from thence will He bring thee back; 
And Hashem Eloheicha will bring thee into ha'aretz which Avoteicha possessed, and thou shalt possess it; and He will do thee good, and multiply thee above Avoteicha. 
And Hashem Eloheicha will circumcise thine lev, and the lev of thy zera, to love Hashem Eloheicha bekhol levavcha uvekhol nafshecha; that thou mayest live. 
And Hashem Eloheicha will put all these curses upon thine enemies, and on them that hate thee, which persecuted thee. 
And thou shalt return and obey the voice of Hashem, and do all His mitzvot which I command thee today. 
And Hashem Eloheicha will make thee abound in every work of thine hand, in the pri of thy womb, and in the pri of thy animals, and in the pri of thy adamah, for tovah; for Hashem will again rejoice over thee for tov, as He rejoiced over Avoteicha; 
If thou shalt give heed unto the voice of Hashem Eloheicha, to be shomer over His mitzvot and His chukkot which are written in this sefer hatorah, for thou will turn unto Hashem Eloheicha bekhol levavcha uvekhol nafshecha. 
For this mitzvah which I command thee today, it is not too hidden from thee, neither is it too distant. 
It is not in Shomayim, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go up for us to Shomayim, and bring it unto us, that we may hear it, and do it? 
Neither is it beyond the yam, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go over the yam for us, and bring it unto us, that we may hear it, and do it? 
But the Davar is very near unto thee, in thy mouth, and in thy lev, that thou mayest do it. 
See, I have set before thee today HaChayyim and HaTov, and Mavet and Rah; 
In that I command thee today to love Hashem Eloheicha, to walk in His ways, and to be shomer over His mitzvot and His chukkot and His mishpatim, that thou mayest live and multiply; and Hashem Eloheicha shall bless thee in ha'aretz whither thou goest to possess it. 
But if thine lev turn away, so that thou wilt not hear, but shalt be drawn away, and worship elohim acherim, and serve them; 
I announce unto you today, that ye shall surely perish, and that ye shall not prolong your yamim upon ha'adamah, whither thou passest over Yarden to go to possess it. 
I call Shomayim and Ha'Aretz to record today as witnesses against you, that I have set before you HaChayyim and HaMavet, HaBrocha and HaKelalah; therefore choose Chayyim, that both thou and thy zera may live; 
That thou mayest love Hashem Eloheicha, and that thou mayest obey His voice, and that thou mayest have deveykus unto Him: for He is Chayyeicha(your life), and the orech yameicha (length of your days); that thou mayest dwell in ha'adamah which Hashem swore unto Avoteicha, to Avraham, to Yitzchak, and to Ya'akov, to give them. 
