BERESHIS.
Chapter 28.
And Yitzchak called for Ya'akov, and blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take an isha of the Banot Kena'an. 
Arise, go to Paddanah-Aram, to the bais Betuel avi immecha; and take thee an isha from there of the banot Lavan achi immecha. 
And El Shaddai bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a kahal amim; 
And give thee the birkat Avraham, to thee, and to thy zera with thee; that thou mayest inherit the eretz wherein thou art a ger, which Elohim gave unto Avraham. 
And Yitzchak sent away Ya'akov; and he went to Paddanah-Aram unto Lavan ben Betuel HaArami, achi Rivkah, em Ya'akov and Esav. 
When Esav saw that Yitzchak had blessed Ya'akov, and sent him away to Paddanah-Aram, to take an isha for him from there; and that when he blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take an isha of the Banot Kena'an; 
And that Ya'akov obeyed his av and his em, and went to Paddanah-Aram; 
And Esav seeing that the Banot Kena'an pleased not Yitzchak his av; 
Then went Esav unto Yishmael, and took unto the nashim which he had Machalat bat Yishmael ben Avraham, the achot of Nevayot, to be his wife. 
And Ya'akov went out from Be'er-Sheva, and went toward Charan. 
And he reached a certain place, and tarried there, because the shemesh was set; and he took of the avanim of that place, and put them for his pillow, and lay down in that place to sleep. 
And he had a chalom, and hinei a sullam (ladder, stairway) set up on the ground, and the top of it reached to Shomayim: and hinei the malachim of Elohim ascending and descending on it. 
And, hinei, Hashem stood above it, and said, I am Hashem Elohei Avraham thy av, and Elohei Yitzchak; ha'aretz whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy zera; 
And thy zera shall be as the dust of ha'aretz, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south; and in thee and in thy zera shall kol hamishpochot haadamah be blessed. 
And, hinei, I am with thee, and will be shomer over thee in all places where thou goest, and will bring thee back into haadamah hazot; for I will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have promised thee. 
And Ya'akov awoke out of his sleep, and he said, Surely Hashem is in this place! And I had no da'as of it. 
And he was afraid, and said, How nora (awesome) is this place! This is none other than the Beis Elohim, and this is the Sha'ar HaShomayim. 
And Ya'akov rose up early in the boker, and took haeven (the stone) that he had put for his pillow, and set it up for a matzevah (pillar), and poured shemen upon the top of it. 
And he called the shem of that place Beit-El; but the shem of that ir was called Luz at the first. 
And Ya'akov vowed a neder (vow), saying, If Elohim will be with me, and will be shomer over me in this derech (way, journey) that I go, and will give me lechem to eat, and beged (clothes) to put on, 
So that I return to bais avi in shalom; then shall Hashem be for me Elohim (my G-d). 
And this even (stone), which I have set for a matzevah (pillar), shall be Beis Elohim: and of all that Thou shalt give me I will surely give the aser (tenth) unto Thee. 
