1 Yochanan.
Chapter 2.
My yeladim, these things I write to you so that you do not commit averos. And if anyone does commit averos, a Melitz Yosher (Advocate) we have with HaAv, Yehoshua/Yeshua, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach the Tzaddik. 
And he is the kapporah for chattoteinu, not for ours only, but also for the kol HaOlam Hazeh. 
And by this we have da'as that we have da'as of Him, if over the mitzvot of Him we are shomer. 
The one making the claim, “I have da'as of Him” and not being shomer over His mitzvot is a shakran (liar) and in this one HaEmes is not. 
But whoever over the dvar of Him is shomer, beemes in this one the ahavas Hashem has been made shleimah. By this we have da'as that in Him we are. 
The one claiming to make his maon in Him ought with the halakhah of that One so he should have his derech. 
Chaverim, I do not write you a mitzvah chadasha, but a mitzvah yashanah, which you were having from the beginning: the mitzvah yashanah is the dvar which you heard. 
Again a mitzvah chadasha I write to you, which is HaEmes in Him, and in you, because the choshech is making its histalkus (passing away) and the Ohr HaAmitti (the True Light) already is shining. 
The one claiming in the Ohr (Light) to be and the Ach b'Moshiach of him hating, is in the choshech still. 
The one with ahavah for the Ach b'Moshiach of him makes his maon(dwelling, permanent residence) in the Ohr (Light), and a cause for michshol (stumbling, falling) is not in him. 
But the one hating the Ach b'Moshiach of him is in the choshech and walks his derech in the choshech and does not have da'as where he goes, because the choshech blinded his eyes. 
I write to you, yeladim, because your averos have been granted selicha (forgiveness) because of SHMO (His Name). 
I write to you, avot, because you have had da'as of the One Who is Bereshis; I write to you, yungelait (young people), because you have conquered the evil one. 
I wrote to you, yeladim, because you have had da'as of HaAv; I wrote to you, avot, because you have had da'as of the One Bereshis. I wrote to you, yungelait (young people), because you are chazakim (strong ones) and the Dvar Hashem makes His maon in you and you have conquered the evil one. 
Do not have ahavah for the Olam Hazeh, neither the things in the Olam Hazeh. If anyone has ahavah for the Olam Hazeh, the Ahavas Elohim HaAv is not in him. 
For all that is in the Olam Hazeh, the ta'avah (lust) of the basar and the ta'avah of the eyes and the gaa'vah (pride) in the chashuve (prominence) of what one has in this life, oneʼs vital possessions, all this is not of HaAv but is of the Olam Hazeh. 
And the Olam Hazeh is making its histalkus (passing away) and the ta'avah (lust) of it, but the one doing the ratzon Hashem has his maon lanetzakh (permanent dwelling place to remain for ever). 
Yeladim, it is the sha'ah ha'achronah (the last hour, time), and as you heard that Anti-Moshiach is coming, even now many Anti-Moshiachs have come, from which we have da'as that it is the sha'ah ha'achronah. 
They went out and departed from us, but they were not of us; for if they were of us, they would have abided with us; but they went out that it may be niglah (be revealed) that none of them belongs to us. 
And you have a mishcha (anointing) from HaKadosh and you have da'as of all. 
I did not write an iggeret kodesh to you because you do not have da'as of HaEmes, but because you do have da'as of HaEmes and that kol sheker (every falsehood) is not of HaEmes. 
Who is the shakran (liar)? Who but the one making hakhchashah (denial) and claiming that Yehoshua is not the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach? This one is the Anti-Moshiach, the one making hakhchashah (denial) of HaAv and HaBen. 
No one making hakhchashah of HaBen has HaAv; the one making hoda'ah (confession) of HaBen has HaAv also. 
What you heard from the beginning, in you let it make its maon. If in you makes maon what from the beginning you heard, also you will make maon in HaBen and in HaAv. 
And this is the havtachah (promise) which He promised us, Chayyei Olam. 
These things I wrote to you concerning the (nevi'ei sheker) deceiving you. 
And the mishcha (anointing) which you received from Him makes its maon in you, and you are not nitzrach (needy) that anyone should be your “moreh,” but as the same mishcha (anointing) teaches you concerning everything and is Emes and is not kazav (lie, falsehood), and as He taught you, keep your maon in Him. 
And now, yeladim, remain in Him, that when He makes His hisgalus (revelation, unveiling appearance) we may have bitachon and not have bushah (shame) before Him at the Bi'as HaMoshiach. 
If you have da'as that He is tzaddik, you have da'as that also everyone who is a po'el tzedek (worker of righteousness) has been born of Him. 
