LUKAS.
Chapter 21.
And having looked up, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach saw the ashirim (rich people) putting into the Beis Hamikdash Otzar (Treasury) their matanot (gifts). 
And he saw a certain poor almanah (widow) putting in there two leptas. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Omein, I say to you that this poor almanah (widow) put in more tzedakah than everyone. 
For all these put in matanot (gifts) out of their abundance, but this almanah (widow), out of her need, put in her michyah (subsistence). 
And as some were speaking about the Beis Hamikdash, that with beautiful avanim (stones) and with matanot (gifts) it has been decorated, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, 
Yamim (Days) will come in which of these things which you see there will not be left an even (stone) upon an even (stone) which will not be thrown down. 
And they questioned him, saying, Rebbe, ad mosai? (how much longer?) When will these things be, and what will be the ot when these things are about to take place? 
And he said, Beware, you should not be deceived. For many will come Bishmi (in my Name) saying, “I am he. And, the time of the Geulah has drawn near.” Do not follow after them. 
But whenever you hear about wars and intifadas, do not be a pachdan (coward). For it is necessary for these things to occur barishonah, but it is not immediately HaKetz. 
Then he was saying to them, Ethnic group will have an intifada against ethnic group, and malchut against malchut, 
There will be great earthquakes and in various places, raav (famine) and makkot (plagues), both horrible portents and great moftim (signs) in Shomayim. 
But before all these things, they will lay their hands on you and bring redifot (persecutions) on you, handing you over to the shuls and the batei hasohar (prisons), being led away before melachim (kings) and moshelim (governors) because of my Name (Yehoshua, Yeshua). 
It will turn out for you to be an opportunity for being an eidus (witness) to the edut (testimony). 
Therefore, keep in your levavot (hearts) not to prepare to defend yourselves. 
For I will give to you a peh (mouth) and chochmah which none of your mitnaggedim will be able to resist or to contradict. 
And you will be handed over also by horim and achim and krovey mishpachot (relatives) and chaverim (friends), and they will have some of you executed and you will die al kiddush ha-Shem, 
And you will be the focus of sinas chinom (baseless hatred) from everyone because of my Name (Yehoshua, Yeshua). 
And not even a hair of your rosh will by any means perish. 
In your savlanut (patience) and endurance you will gain your nefashot (souls). 
But when you see Yerushalayim being surrounded by machanot (encamping armies), then have daas that the sho'ah of it has drawn near. 
Then the ones in Yehudah, flee to the mountains, and the ones inside HaIr (the City), let them get out, and the ones in the sadot (fields), let them not enter into HaIr (the City), 
Because these are the Yemei Nekamah (Days of Vengeance), as a fulfillment of all the Kitvei Hakodesh. 
Oy to the ones with child and to the ones nursing in yamim hahem (those days). For there will be Tzarah Gedolah (Great Tribulation) upon Eretz Yisroel and kaas (anger) against this people, 
And they will fall by the edge of the cherev (sword) and they will all be led captive into the Golus, and Yerushalayim will be trampled down by the Goyim, until the times of the Goyim are fulfilled. 
And there will be otot (miraculous signs) in the shemesh (sun) and the levanah (moon) and the kochavim (stars), and upon the earth there will be dismay among the Goyim, in perplexity at the sound of the sea and the waves; 
Bnei Adam will be fainting from pachad (terror) and from expectation of the things coming upon the Olam Hazeh, for the kochot (powers) of the heavens will be shaken. 
And then you will see the Bar Enosh and his Bias HaMoshiach on an Anan (Cloud) with gevurah (miraculous power of Hashem) and kavod rav (great glory). 
And when the Reshit (the Beginning) of these things occurs, stand erect and lift up your roshim (heads), because your Geulah (Redemption) draws near. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach told a mashal (parable) to them. You see the etz te'enah (fig tree) and all the etz. 
When they sprout leaves already, you see for yourselves and you have daas that Kayits (Summer) is already near. 
So also you, when you see these things happening, you have daas that the Malchut Hashem is near. 
Omein, I say to you, that HaDor HaZeh will not pass away until all these things may occur. 
HaShomayim and HaAretz will pass away, but my Devarim will by no means pass away. 
And be shomer regarding yourselves lest your levavot (hearts) may be burdened with dissipation and drunkenness and the cares of the Olam HaZeh and Yom HaHu (That Day) may come upon you PITOM(suddenly). 
For as a mokesh (trap) it will come upon all the ones dwelling on the pnei kol haAretz (the face of all the Earth). 
But be shomer (on guard, alert), always davening that you may be able to escape all these things that are about to happen and that you may be able to stand before the Bar Enosh. 
Now in those days Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was saying shiurim in the Beis Hamikdash, and balailah (at night) he was going out into the Har HaZeytim. 
And all the people were getting up early in the boker to come to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach in the Beis Hamikdash to hear him. 
