VAYIKRA.
Chapter 24.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Command the Bnei Yisroel, that they bring unto thee pure shemen zayit beaten for the light, to kindle the Ner Tamid (Perpetual Lamp). 
Outside the Parochet (Curtain) of the Edut, in the Ohel Mo'ed shall Aharon set it in order from erev unto boker before Hashem tamid (continually); it shall be a chukkat olam in your dorot. 
He shall set in order the nerot (lamps) upon the Menorah Hatehorah before Hashem tamid (continually). 
And thou shalt take fine flour, and bake Sheteym Esreh Challot thereof; two tenths of an ephah shall be in Challah Echat. 
And thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the Shulchan HaTahor before Hashem. 
And thou shalt put levonah zakkah (pure incense) upon each row, that it may be on the lechem for a memorial portion, even an offering made by eish unto Hashem. 
Shabbos after Shabbos he shall set it in order before Hashem tamid, from the Bnei Yisroel as a Brit Olam. 
And it shall be for Aharon and for his Banim; and they shall eat it in the Makom Kadosh; for it is kodesh kodashim unto him of the offerings of Hashem made by eish, a chok olam. 
And the ben isha Yisroelit, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the Bnei Yisroel; and this ben isha Yisroeli and a man of Yisroel fought together in the machaneh; 
And the ben haisha Yisroelit pronounced HaShem and blasphemed in a curse. And they brought him unto Moshe; (and shem immo was Shelomit bat Divri, of the tribe of Dan;) 
And they put him in custody, that the mind of Hashem might be showed them. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Bring forth him that hath blasphemed outside the machaneh; and let all that heard him lay their hands upon his head, and let kol HaEdah stone him. 
And thou shalt speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, saying, Whosoever curseth Elohav shall bear his chet. 
And he that blasphemeth the Shem of Hashem, he shall surely be put to death, and kol HaEdah shall certainly stone him; as well the ger, as the ezrach, when he blasphemeth the Shem of Hashem, shall be put to death. 
And he that taketh the nefesh of any man shall surely be put to death. 
And he that taketh the nefesh of a beast shall make it good; nefesh takhat nefesh. 
And if a man cause a mum in his neighbor; as he hath done, so shall it be done to him; 
Fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he hath caused a mum in an adam, so shall it be done to him. 
And he that killeth a beast, he shall restitute it; and he that killeth a man, he shall be put to death. 
Ye shall have mishpat echad, as well for the ger, as for the ezrach: for I am Hashem Eloheichem. 
And Moshe spoke to the Bnei Yisroel, that they should bring forth him that had blasphemed out of the machaneh, and stone him with stones. And the Bnei Yisroel did as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
