TEHILLIM.
Chapter 72.
(Of Sh'lomo) 1 Give HaMelech Thy mishpatim, O Elohim, and Thy tzedakah unto the Ben Melech. 
He shall judge Thy people with tzedek, and Thy poor with mishpat. 
The harim (mountains) shall bear shalom to the people, and geva'ot (hills) in tzedakah. 
He shall judge the poor of the people; yoshia (He shall save) the bnei evyon (children of the needy), and shall break in pieces the oppressor. 
They shall fear Thee as long as the shemesh and yarei'ach endure, dor dorim (throughout all generations). 
He shall come down like matar (rain) upon the mown field, as showers watering eretz. 
In his yamim shall the tzaddik flourish; and abundance of shalom so long as the yarei'ach endureth. 
He shall have dominion also from yam to yam, and from nahar (Euphrates river) unto the afsei eretz (the ends of the earth). 
They that dwell in the desert shall bow before him; and his oyevim (enemies) shall lick the aphar (dust). 
The melachim of Tarshish and of the iyim (islands) shall bring minchah (tribute); the melachim of Sheva and Seva shall offer gifts. 
Kol melachim shall fall down before him; kol Goyim shall serve him. 
For he shall deliver the evyon (needy) when he crieth; the oni (poor, afflicted) also, and him that hath no ozer (helper). 
He shall pity the weak and evyon (needy), and yoshi'a (he shall save) the nefashot of the evyonim (needy). 
He shall be the Go'el Redeemer of their nefesh from deceit and chamas; and precious shall their dahm be in his sight. 
And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the zahav of Sheva; and prayer shall be for him continually; and daily shall a brocha be made on him. 
There shall be an abundance of grain on ha'aretz upon the top of the harim (mountains); the fruit thereof shall shake Levanon; and they of the city shall flourish like esev ha'aretz. 
Shmo (His Name) shall endure l'olam; Shmo shall be continued as long as the shemesh; and men shall be blessed in him; kol Goyim shall call him blessed. 
Baruch Hashem Elohim, Elohei Yisroel, who only doeth nifla'ot (wondrous things). 
And baruch Shem kevodo l'olam (and blessed be His Glorious Name forever); and let the whole earth be filled with His glory. Omein, and Omein. 
The tefillot Dovid Ben Yishai are ended. 
