Moshiachʼs Letter through the Shliach Shim'on Kefa to the Brit Chadasha Kehillah (I).
Chapter 1.
Shim'on Kefa a Shliach of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua to HaBechirim (the Chosen ones), to the Exiled ones of the Golus, Sojourners living as aliens in the Diaspora, scattered in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, 
To HaBechirim (the Chosen ones) according to the yedi'ah mukdemet (foreknowledge) of Elohim Avinu, the ones set apart as Kedoshim by the Ruach Hakodesh, resulting in mishma'at (obedience) to the Moshiach and resulting in hazzayat HaDahm(sprinkling of the Blood) of Moshiach Yehoshua. May Chen v'Chesed Hashem and Shalom Hashem abound to all of you! 
Baruch Hashem, HaElohim Avi of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua! By his great rachamim (mercy) we have been born anew to a tikvah chayyah (living hope) through the Techiyas Yehoshua from HaMesim (the dead ones). 
We have also been born anew to a nachalah (inheritance) that is without shachat(corruption, decay), undefiled and unfading, having been preserved in Shomayim for you, 
The ones by the koach of Hashem being guarded through Emunah (Faith) for Yeshu'at Eloheinu (the Salvation of our G-d), which is ready to be revealed at the Ketz Hayamim (End of Days). 
In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have to suffer in various masot (trials, temptations), 
That the genuineness of your Emunah, much more valuable than gold which though perishable is tested by Eish (Fire), may be found to the tehillah (praise) and the kavod (glory) and the tiferet (splendor) at the Hisgalus (Revelation, Apocalypse) of Moshiach Yehoshua. 
He is the one for whom you have ahavah, even though you have not seen him. Though you do not now see him, you have emunah in him and rejoice with simcha inexpressible and full of kavod, 
Obtaining the maskana (outcome) of your Emunah, the Yeshu'at Eloheynu of your nefashot (souls). 
The Nevi'im, who prophesied of the Chen v'Chesed Hashem that was to come to you, searched and inquired about this Yeshu'at Eloheynu. 
The Nevi'im were searching for what zman (time) or what context of occasion the Ruach of Moshiach in them was pointing to, when predicting the Chevlei Moshiach and HaKavod to follow. 
The hisgalus (revelation) came to the Nevi'im that the avodas hakodesh ministry they were rendering was not to themselves, but to you, when they spoke of the things announced to you through the Mevaserim(Messianic Darshanim, Maggidim) of the Besuras HaGeulah by the Ruach Hakodesh sent from Shomayim, the very things even malachim desire to look into. 
Therefore, tighten the “readiness” gartel of your mind, a mind that is one of kibush hayetzer (self-control). Set your tikvah completely on the Chen v'Chesed Hashem that is being brought to you, at the Hisgalus (Revelation, Apocalypse) of Moshiach Yehoshua. 
As Bnei Mishma'at(Children of Obedience), not conforming yourselves to your former ta'avot (lusts), when you lacked da'as (personal, saving knowledge), 
But, als (since) the One who bestows on you the kri'ah (calling) is KADOSH HU, so also yourselves become Kedoshim in hitnahagut (conduct), 
Because it says in the Torah, KEDOSHIM TIH'YU KI KADOSH ANI(You must be holy ones for I am holy). 
And if you call upon as “Avinu” the One who is the impartial Shofet (Shofet kol ha'aretz) of each man L'ISH K'MA'ASEIHU(To each according to his deeds), then conduct yourself with yirat Shomayim during your time in the Golus of the Olam Hazeh, 
Having da'as that the padut nafsheynu (redemption ransom of our souls) was not with perishable things such as silver or gold when your Geulah (Redemption) was purchased from the Derech HaHevel (empty way of life) handed down to you from your Avot. 
No, it was the precious DAHM as of a SEH TAMIM U'MUM(lamb unblemished and unspotted), the DAHM of Moshiach 
Who, on the one hand, having been foreknown lifnei hivvased tevel (before the foundation of the world), but, on the other hand, having been manifested at the Ketz Hayamim (End of Days) because of you. 
Through him you have emunah in Hashem, the One who brought forth the Techiyas HaMoshiach from HaMesim (the dead ones) and gave him Kavod. And so your emunah and your tikvah are in Hashem. 
Having purified your nefashot (souls) by mishma'at(obedience) to HaEmes, resulting in ahavah shel achvah (brotherly love) without tzevi'ut (hypocrisy), have fervent ahavah (agape) for one another, from a lev tahor. 
You have been given a new birth, not from perishable zerah (seed), but zerah that is without shachat(corruption), through the Dvar Hashem who is Chai v'Nitzav l'Olam (living and remaining firm forever). 
For, All flesh is grass and all of mankindʼs glory is like the flower: the grass withers, the flower falls, 
But the Word of our G-d stands forever. And this is the Dvar proclaimed to you as the Besuras HaGeulah in Moshiach. 
