MELACHIM BAIS.
Chapter 5.
Now Na'aman, Sar Tzeva Melech Aram, was an ish gadol before his adon and highly honored, because by him Hashem had given deliverance unto Aram; he was also a gibbor chayil, but metzorah (having leprosy). 
And Aram (the Syrians) had gone out gedudim (in bands of soldiers), and had taken away captive out of Eretz Yisroel a na'arah ketanah; and she waited on Na'amanʼs isha. 
And she said unto her gevirah, If only adoni were before the navi that is in Shomron! For he would recover him of his tzara'at. 
And one went in, and told his adon, saying, Thus and thus said the na'arah that is of Eretz Yisroel. 
And Melech Aram said, Go to, go, and I will send a sefer (letter) unto Melech Yisroel. And he departed, and took with him ten talents of kesef, and six thousand pieces of zahav, and ten changes of begadim. 
And he brought the sefer (letter) to Melech Yisroel, saying, Now when this letter is come unto thee, hinei, I have therewith sent Na'aman avdi to thee, that thou mayest of his tzara'at recover him. 
And it came to pass, when Melech Yisroel had read the sefer, that he tore his begadim, and said, Am I HaElohim, to kill and to make alive, that this doth send unto me to recover an ish of his tzara'at? Wherefore consider, now, and see how he seeketh a quarrel against me. 
And it was so, when Elishah Ish HaElohim had heard that Melech Yisroel had torn his beged, that he sent to HaMelech, saying, Why hast thou torn thy beged? Let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a navi in Yisroel. 
So Na'aman came with his susim and with his merkavah, and stood at the petach of the bais Elishah. 
And Elishah sent a malach unto him, saying, Go and wash sheva times in the Yarden, and thy basar shall come back to thee, and thou shalt be tahor. 
But Na'aman was in wrath, and went away, and said, Hinei, I thought that he will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the Shem Hashem Elohav, and wave his yad over the makom, and give recovery from the metzorah (leprosy, leprous area). 
Are not Avana and Parpar, naharot of Damascus, better than all the mayim of Yisroel? May I not wash in them, and be tahor? So he turned and went away in chemah (anger, hot temper). 
And his avadim came near, and spoke unto him, and said, Avi, if the navi had bid thee do some davar gadol, wouldest thou not have done it? How much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash, and be tahor? 
Then went he down, and did undergo tevilah (dipped himself, immersed himself) sheva times in the Yarden, according to the devar of the Ish HaElohim; his basar came back like unto the basar of a na'ar katan; he was tahor. 
He returned to the Ish HaElohim, he and all his machaneh came, stood before him; and he said, Hinei, now I know that there is no Elohim in kol ha'aretz, but in Yisroel; now therefore, please, take a brocha of thy eved. 
But he said, As Hashem liveth, before whom I stand, I will receive none. And he urged him to take it; but he refused. 
And Na'aman said, Shall there not then, please, be given to thy eved two mulesʼ massa (burden) of adamah? For thy eved will henceforth offer neither olah nor zevach unto elohim acherim, but unto Hashem. 
In this thing Hashem pardon thy eved, that when adoni goeth into the Bais Rimmon to bow down there, and he leaneth on my yad, and I bow myself in the Bais Rimmon; when I bow down myself in the Bais Rimmon, Hashem pardon thy eved in this thing. 
And he said unto him, Go in shalom. So he departed from him some distance. 
But Geichazi, the na'ar Elishah the Ish HaElohim, said, Hinei, adoni hath spared Na'aman HaArami hazeh by not accepting at his hands that which he brought: but, as Hashem liveth, I will run after him, and take something of him. 
So Geichazi pursued after Na'aman. And when Na'aman saw him running after him, he got down from the merkavah to meet him, and said, HaShalom (is all well)? 
And he said, Shalom (all is well). Adoni hath sent me, saying, Hinei, even now there came to me from har Ephrayim two ne'arim of the Bnei HaNevi'im; give them, now, a talent of kesef, and two changes of begadim. 
And Na'aman said, Be content, take two talents. And he urged him, and bound two talents of kesef in two bags, with two changes of begadim, and laid them upon two of his ne'arim; and they bore them before him. 
And when he came to a secluded spot, he took them from their yad, and put them away in the bais; and he let the anashim go, and they departed. 
But he went in, and stood before his adon. And Elishah said unto him, From where comest thou, Geichazi? And he said, Thy eved went nowhere. 
And he said unto him, Went not mine lev (spirit) with thee, when the ish turned again from his merkavah to meet thee? Is it a time to receive kesef, and to receive begadim, and zeitim (olive groves), and kramim, and tzon, and bakar, and avadim, and shefachot? 
The tzara'at therefore of Na'aman shall make its deveykus unto thee, and unto thy zera l'olam. And he went out from his presence metzorah, like sheleg (snow). 
