Moshiachʼs Letter through the Shliach Sha'ul to Philemon.
Chapter 1.
Sha'ul, a prisoner of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua and Timotiyos acheinu (our brother). To Philemon ha'ahuv (the beloved) and our fellow po'el (worker), 
And to Apphia achoteinu (our sister) and to Archippus our chaver leneshek (comrade arms) and to the Kehillah in your bais. 
Chen v'Chesed Hashem and Shalom Hashem to you from Elohim Avinu and from Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua. 
I always offer a bracha to my G-d when I mention you in my tefillos (prayers), 
Because I hear of your ahavah (agape) and emunah, which you have for Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua and for all the Kedoshim. 
I pray that your emunah (faith) being shared in Moshiachʼs kiruv rechokim (bringing near the far away ones) may become effective in the da'as of every mitzvah we may do for Moshiach. 
For I had simcha gedolah (much joy) and chizzuk (encouragement) because of your ahavah, for the levavot of the Kedoshim have been refreshed through you, Ach b'Moshiach. 
Therefore, though I have much boldness in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach that I could in fact order you to do your chovah musarit (moral duty) of avodas hakodesh (holy service), 
Yet I would rather make an appeal on the mekor (basis) of ahavah (agape) — I, Rav Sha'ul, the Zaken (Elder) but also a prisoner of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
I appeal to you concerning beni, having “fathered” him (to a new birth) while in bais hasohar (prison) — that is, Onesimus, 
The one once “Useless” to you, but, now, both to you and to me “Useful” (Onesimus). 
I am sending him who is my very lev (heart) back to you. 
I was wanting to detain him with me, in order that he might function as a keli kodesh (minister), ministering to me in your place, as your murshe (proxy), while Iʼm detained in the imprisonment of the Besuras HaGeulah. 
But I wanted to do nothing without your haskamah (consent, approval), in order that the mitzvah you do might not be meshabed (caused to be obligated) or forced, but voluntary. 
Eppis (for some reason) perhaps he was separated from you for a while in order that you might have him back for Yamim HaOlam, 
No longer as a bond servant, but, more than a bond servant, an ach ahuv (a beloved brother), especially to me, and how much more to you, both as a man and in Adoneinu. 
So if you consider me partnered to you as a chaver in our common orthodox Jewish emunah, receive him as you would me. 
But if in anything he wronged you or owes you, charge this to my cheshbon (account, bill). 
I, Rav Sha'ul, am writing this with my own hand: I will repay. This is not to meorer (point out) the fact that on your cheshbon you owe me your very neshamah. 
Yes, Ach b'Moshiach, I would have some “usefulness” from you in Adoneinu. Refresh my lev in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
Confident of you as one who is shomer mitzvot, I am writing to you, knowing that you will do even above what I say. 
Also, this too, prepare a heimishe mekom linah (guest room, lodging place) for me, for I have the tikvah (hope) that through your tefillos I will be restored to you. 
Drishat Shalom to you from Epaphras, my co-prisoner in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
Drishat Shalom, also, from Markos, Aristarchus, Demas, and Lukas, my fellow po'alim (workers). 
The Chen v'Chesed Hashem of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua be with your neshamah.
