YOCHANAN.
Chapter 8.
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach went to the Har HaZeytim (Mount of Olives). 
And at the beginning of Shacharis, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach came again into the Beis Hamikdash and kol haAm (all the people) were coming to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, and having sat, for them he was saying a shiur. 
And the Sofrim and the Perushim led an isha (woman) having been caught in ni'uf (adultery) and, having stood her in the midst, 
They say to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Rabbi, this isha (woman) has been caught in the act of committing ni'uf (adultery). 
Now in our Torah Moshe Rabbeinu gave us a mitzvah to stone such nashim. You, therefore, what do you say? 
But this they were saying to put a nissayon before Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach that they might have something about which to accuse him, but he, having stooped down with his finger, was writing on the ground. 
But as they were remaining, questioning him, he stood up and said to them, The one without chet (sin) among you, at her let him be first to throw a stone. 
And again, having stooped down, he was writing on the ground. 
And the ones having heard were departing, one by one, beginning with the zekenim, and he was left alone with the isha standing before him. 
And having stood up, he said to her, Isha, where are they? Does no one condemn you? 
And she said, No one, Adoni. And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Neither do I condemn you. Go and practice chet no more. 
Then again he spoke to them, saying, Ani Hu HaOhr HaOlam Hazeh. The one following me will never walk in choshech, but will have the Ohr HaChayyim. 
Therefore, the Perushim said to him, You give solemn edut (testimony) about yourself. But your edut is not ne'emanah. 
In reply, he said to them, Even if I give solemn edut about myself, my edut is ne'emanah, because I have da'as of where I came from and where I go, but you have no da'as of where I come from or where I go. 
You judge according to the basar; I do not judge anyone. 
But even if I judge, my psak din, my mishpat, is emes, because it is not I alone but the One having sent me, HaAv. 
And it has been written even in your Torah, that the edut (testimony) of two is ne'emanah. 
Ani Hu the one giving solemn edut (testimony) about myself and the One having sent me, HaAv, gives solemn edut about me. 
Therefore, they were saying to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Where is HaAv of you? In reply, he said, You have da'as of neither me nor HaAv of me. If you had had da'as of me, you would have had da'as of HaAv of me. 
These devarim, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach spoke in the Beis HaOtzar while saying shiurim in the Beis Hamikdash, and no one arrested him, because his sha'ah had not yet come. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, therefore, again to them, I go away (Rebbe's Histalkus) and you will seek me, and in your chet you will go to your mavet. Where I go you are not able to come. 
Therefore, those of Yehudah were saying, Does he mean he will commit suicide, because he says, Where I go you are not able to come? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was saying to them, You are from mattah (below); Ani Hu from ma'lah (above). You are of the Olam Hazeh; I am not of the Olam Hazeh. 
I said, therefore, to you that you will go to your mavet in your averos (sins), for if you do not have emunah (faith) that Ani Hu, you will die in your chatta'im. 
They were saying, therefore, to him, Who are you? Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, What I have told you from the beginning. 
I have much to speak regarding you, much about you worthy of harsha'ah (condemnation), but the One having sent me is ne'eman and what I heard from Him these things I speak in the Olam Hazeh. 
They did not have da'as that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was speaking to them about Elohim HaAv. 
Therefore, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, When you perform the hagbah (lifting up) of the Bar Enosh, you will have da'as that Ani Hu, and from myself I do nothing, but as HaAv of me taught me, these things I speak. 
And the One having sent me is with me. He did not leave me alone, because I always do the things that please Him. 
As Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was saying these things, many put their emunah in him. 
Therefore, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was saying to the Yehudim who had emunah in him, If you remain in the dvar of me, then you are my talmidim indeed. 
And you will have da'as of HaEmes (the Truth) and HaEmes will give you cherut (freedom). 
They answered Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, We are of the zera Avraham and to no one have we ever been enslaved. How do you say, You will become Bnei Chorin (freedmen)? 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Omein, omein, I say to you that everyone practicing Chet is an eved HaChet. 
But the eved does not remain in the Bais ad Olam. HaBen remains ad Olam. 
If therefore HaBen makes you Bnei Chorin, you shall be Bnei Chorin indeed. 
I have da'as that you are zera Avraham, but you seek to kill me, because my dvar has no place in you. 
What I have seen in the presence of HaAv of me, of that, I make solemn declaration. Therefore, the things you have heard from your father you do. 
They answered and said unto him, Avinu hu Avraham. Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, If you were yeladim of Avraham, you would have been doing the ma'asei Avraham. 
But now you are seeking to kill me, a man who has told you HaEmes, which I heard from Hashem; this was not a ma'aseh that Avraham did. 
You are doing the ma'asim of your Av. They said, therefore, to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, We are not mamzerim who have been born of zenunim (fornication). We have Av Echad, Hashem. 
He said to them, If Hashem were the Av of you, you would have had ahavah for me, for I came forth from Hashem, and now I am present here, for I have not come on my own, but HaAv sent me. 
Why do you not understand my devarim? Because you are not able to give obedient shemah (hearing) to my dvar. 
You are from the Av of you, HaSatan, and the ta'avot of your Av you want to do, for that one was a rotze'ach from Bereshis, and he has not taken a stand in HaEmes, because HaEmes is not in him. When he speaks the sheker, he speaks naturally, because he is a shakran (liar) and the av of it. 
But because I speak HaEmes, you do not have bitachon (trust) in me. 
Who among you convicts me of chet (sin)? If I speak HaEmes, why do you not have emunah in me? 
The one who is of Hashem hears the divrei Hashem. Therefore, you do not hear because you are not of Hashem. 
In reply, those of Yehudah said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Did we not rightly say that you are a Shomroni (Samaritan) and that you have a shed (demon)? 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, I do not have a shed (demon). But I honor HaAv of me and you dishonor me. 
But I do not seek my own kavod; there is One seeking and judging. 
Omein, omein, I say to you, regarding the dvar of me, if anyone is shomer, he will never see mavet. 
Therefore, those of Yehudah said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Now we have da'as that you have a shed, Avraham died and the Nevi'im; yet you say if anyone keeps the dvar of me he will never taste mavet (death). 
Surely you are not greater than Avraham Avinu, who died? And the Nevi'im died. Whom do you make yourself to be? 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, If I give myself kavod, the kavod of me is nothing. It is HaAv of me Who is giving me kavod, Whom you say, He is Eloheinu. 
And you have not had da'as of Him. But I have had da'as of Him. If I would say that I do not have da'as of Him, I will be like you, a shakran (liar); but I do have da'as of Him, and I keep His dvar. 
Avraham your Av had lev same'ach to see the Yom of me, and he saw it and had simcha. 
Therefore those of Yehudah said to him, You do not yet possess fifty years and yet you have seen Avraham Avinu? 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Omein, omein, I say to you, before Avraham came into being, Ani Hu. 
Then they took up stones that they might stone him, but Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was hidden and departed out of the Beis Hamikdash. 
