TEHILLIM.
Chapter 73.
(Mizmor of Asaph) 1 Truly Elohim is tov to Yisroel, even to the barei levav (pure of heart). 
But as for me, my raglayim had almost stumbled; my steps had well near slipped. 
For I had kina (envy) of the holelim (arrogant ones), when I saw the shalom of the resha'im. 
For there are no chartzubot (fetters, bonds, pains) in their mot; healthy is their belly. 
They are not in amal (trouble) as enosh; neither are they plagued like adam. 
Therefore ga'avah encircleth them like a chain necklace; chamas enwraps them like a garment. 
Their eyes bulge with chelev; they have more than levav could imagine. 
They mock, and speak wickedly concerning oshek (oppression); they speak from marom (on high). 
They set their mouth against Shomayim, and their leshon stalketh in ha'aretz. 
Therefore their people return here; and mayim to the full are swallowed down by them. 
And they say, How doth El (G-d) know? And is there knowledge in Elyon? 
Hinei, these are the resha'im; at ease olam, they increase in riches. 
Surely in vain have I cleansed my lev, and washed my hands in innocency. 
For kol hayom have I been plagued, and chastened in the bekarim (mornings). 
If I say, I will speak thus; hinei, I would have dealt faithlessly with the dor banecha (the generation of Thy children). 
When I thought to comprehend this, it was amal (difficulty) in my eyes; 
Until I went into the Mikdeshei El; then I had binah (understanding) of their (the wickedʼs) destiny. 
Surely Thou didst set them in slippery places; Thou castedst them down into mashu'ot (ruins, destruction). 
How are they brought into desolation, as in a rega (moment)! They are utterly consumed with balahot (terrors). 
As a chalom when one awaketh; so, Adonoi, when Thou art aroused, Thou shalt despise their tzelem (shadowy form). 
Thus my levav was grieved, and I was pricked in my mind. 
So senseless was I, and ignorant; I was like behemot before Thee. 
Nevertheless I am with Thee tamid (always); Thou hast taken hold of me by my yamin. 
Thou shalt guide me with Thy etzah (counsel), and afterward take me to kavod (glory). 
Whom have I in Shomayim but Thee? And there is none upon HaAretz that I desire beside Thee. 
My flesh and my levav may fail; but Elohim is the Tzur of my levav, and my chelek l'olam. 
For, hinei, they that are far from Thee shall perish; Thou hast destroyed all them that go zoneh (a-whoring) from Thee. 
But kiravat Elohim (drawing near to Elohim) is tov for me; I make in Adonoi Hashem my refuge, that I may declare all Thy deeds. 
