SHEMOT.
Chapter 36.
Then Betzalel and Oholiav, and kol ish chacham lev, in whom Hashem gave chochmah and tevunah to have da'as to do all manner of work for the Avodas HaKodesh, are to do the work according to all that Hashem had commanded. 
And Moshe called Betzalel and Oholiav, and kol ish chacham lev, in whose lev Hashem had given chochmah, even every one whose lev stirred him up to come unto the work to do it; 
And they received of Moshe kol haterumah, which the Bnei Yisroel had brought for the work of the Avodas HaKodesh, to make it withal. And they brought yet unto him nedavah every boker. 
And all the chachamim, that wrought all the work of HaKodesh, came every man from his work which they were doing; 
And they spoke unto Moshe, saying, HaAm bring much more than enough for the Avodah of the work, which Hashem commanded to do. 
And Moshe gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the machaneh, saying, Let neither ish nor isha make any more work for the terumat HaKodesh. So HaAm were restrained from bringing. 
For the work had been sufficient for all the work to do it v'hoter. 
And kol chacham lev among them that wrought the work of the Mishkan made ten curtains of fine linen, twisted with turquoise, and purple, and scarlet wool; with keruvim in a woven artistic design made he them. 
The length of each curtain was twenty and eight cubits, and the width of each curtain four cubits; the curtains were all of the one size. 
And he joined five curtains one unto another; and the other five curtains he joined one unto another. 
And he made loops of turquoise wool on the edge of one curtain at the end of the first set; likewise he made them along the edge of the end curtains of the second set. 
Fifty loops made he in one curtain, and fifty loops made he in the end curtain in the second set; the loops were to be opposite one another. 
And he made fifty hooks of zahav, and joined the curtains one unto another with the hooks; so it became Mishkan Echad. 
And he made curtains of goat hair for the Ohel over the Mishkan; eleven curtains he made them. 
The length of one curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits was the width of one curtain; the eleven curtains were of the one size. 
And he joined five curtains into a set, and six curtains into a set. 
And he made fifty loops upon the uttermost edge of the curtain at the end of the set, and fifty loops made he upon the edge of the curtain of the other set. 
And he made fifty hooks of nechoshet to attach the Ohel together, that it might be echad (one). 
And he made a Mikhseh (Cover) for the Ohel of dyed red ram skin, and a tachash hide Mikhseh above that. 
And he made kerashim (planks) for the Mishkan of acacia wood, standing erect. 
The length of a keresh (plank) was ten cubits, and the width of a keresh one cubit and a half. 
One keresh had two yadot (projections, tenons), equally distant one from another; thus did he make for all the kerashim of the Mishkan. 
And he made kerashim (frames) for the Mishkan; twenty kerashim for the negev (south) side southward; 
And arba'im sockets of kesef he made under the twenty kerashim; two sockets under one keresh for its two tenons, and two sockets under another keresh for its two tenons. 
And for the other side of the Mishkan, which is toward the north, he made twenty kerashim, 
And their arba'im sockets of kesef; two sockets under one keresh, and two sockets under another keresh. 
And for the sides of the Mishkan westward he made six kerashim. 
And two kerashim made he for the corners of the Mishkan in the back. 
And they were doubled at the bottom, and joined together; at the top thereof, there was one ring; thus he did to both of them in both the corners. 
And there were eight kerashim; and their sockets were sixteen sockets of kesef, under every keresh two sockets. 
And he made crossbars of acacia wood; five for the kerashim of the one side of the Mishkan, 
And five crossbars for the kerashim of the other side of the Mishkan, and five crossbars for the kerashim of the Mishkan for the sides westward. 
And he made the middle crossbar to extend within the kerashim from the one end to the other. 
And he overlaid the kerashim with zahav, and made their rings of zahav to be housing for the crossbars, and overlaid the crossbars with zahav. 
And he made a Parochet of turquoise, and purple, and scarlet wool, and twisted fine linen; with keruvim made he it of artistic embroidery. 
And he made thereunto four ammudim of acacia wood, and overlaid them with zahav; their hooks were of zahav; and he cast for them four sockets of kesef. 
And he made a Masach for the petach of the Ohel of turquoise, and purple, and scarlet wool, and twisted fine linen, the work of artistic embroidery; 
And the five ammudim of it with their hooks; and he overlaid their tops and their bands with zahav; but their five sockets were of nechoshet. 
