Divrey Hayamim Bais.
Chapter 1.
And Sh'lomo Ben Dovid was strengthened in his kingdom, and Hashem Elohav was with him, and magnified him exceedingly. 
Then Sh'lomo spoke unto kol Yisroel, to the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and to the shofetim, and to every Nasi in kol Yisroel, the Rashei HaAvot. 
So Sh'lomo, and Kol HaKahal with him, went to the high place that was at Giv'on, for there was the Ohel Mo'ed HaElohim, which Moshe eved Hashem had made in the midbar. 
But the Aron HaElohim Dovid had brought up from Kiryat-Ye'arim to the place which Dovid had prepared for it; for he had pitched an Ohel for it at Yerushalayim. 
Moreover the Mizbe'ach Hanechoshet, that Betzalel ben Uri ben Chur had made, he put in front of the Mishkan Hashem; and Sh'lomo and HaKahal inquired of Him. 
And Sh'lomo went up there to the Mizbe'ach Hanechoshet before Hashem, which was at the Ohel Mo'ed, and offered a thousand olot upon it. 
In that lailah did Elohim appear unto Sh'lomo, and said unto him, Ask what I shall give thee. 
And Sh'lomo said unto Elohim, Thou hast showed chesed gadol unto Dovid Avi, and hast made me to reign in his place. 
Now, Hashem Elohim, let Thy Davar unto Dovid Avi be established, for Thou hast made me melech over Am Rav like the aphar ha'aretz in multitude. 
Give me now chochmah and intelligence, that I may go out and come in before HaAm Hazeh, for who can judge this Thy people, that is so great? 
And Elohim said to Sh'lomo, Because this was in thine levav, and thou hast not asked osher, riches, or kavod, nor the nefesh of thine enemies, neither yet hast asked yamim rabbim (many days, long life), but hast asked chochmah and intelligence for thyself, that thou mayest judge My people, over whom I have made thee melech, 
Chochmah and intelligence is granted unto thee; and I will give thee osher, and riches, and kavod, such as none of the melachim have had that be before or after thee. 
Then Sh'lomo came from his journey to the high place that was at Giv'on, from before the Ohel Mo'ed, to Yerushalayim, and reigned over Yisroel. 
And Sh'lomo gathered chariots and parashim (horsemen); and he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand parashim, which he placed in the chariot cities, and with HaMelech at Yerushalayim. 
And HaMelech made kesef and zahav at Yerushalayim as plenteous as avanim, and cedar trees he made as abundant as the sycomore fig trees that are in the Shefelah. 
And Sh'lomo had susim imported from Mitzrayim and from Keve; the royal buyers purchased them from Keve. 
And they imported from Mitzrayim, and then exported a merkavah (chariot) for six hundred shekels of kesef, and a sus (horse) for a hundred and fifty; and so they exported susim to all the melachim of the Chittim, and to the melachim of Aram (Syria). 
And Sh'lomo determined to build a Bais for the Shem of Hashem, and a Bais (palace) for his kingdom. 
