IYOV.
Chapter 37.
At this also my lev trembleth, and is moved out of its place. 
Hear attentively the rogez of His voice, and the sound that goeth out of His mouth. 
He directeth it under kol HaShomayim, and His ohr (lightning) unto the ends of ha'aretz. 
After it His kol (voice) roareth; He thundereth with the kol of His majesty; one cannot hold them back when His kol is heard. 
El thundereth marvellously with His kol; gedolot doeth He, beyond our understanding. 
For He saith to the snow, Fall thou to the eretz; likewise to the geshem matar, the heavy downpour of rain. 
He sealeth up kol adam; that all men may know His work. 
Then the chayyah (beasts) go into their lair, and remain in their places. 
Out of its cheder (chamber) cometh the whirlwind; and cold out of the driving winds. 
By the neshamah of El frost is given, and the broad mayim are frozen. 
Also by watering He loadeth the thick cloud; He scattereth the anan of His ohr (lightning), 
And it is turned round about by His guidance; that they may do whatsoever He commandeth them upon the face of the tevel (habitable world). 
He causeth it to happen, whether for correction, or for His land, or for chesed. 
Pay heed unto this, O Iyov; stand still, and consider the nifle'ot El (wondrous works of G-d). 
Dost thou know how Eloah controls them, and caused the ohr (lightning) of His cloud to flash? 
Dost thou know the spreading out of the clouds, the wondrous works of Him which is tamim in da'as? 
You whose garments are hot, when the eretz is still because of the south wind, 
Hast thou with Him spread out the shekhakim (clouds), hard as a molten mirror? 
Teach us what we shall say unto Him, for we cannot order our case by reason of choshech. 
Should it be told Him that I wish to speak? Or should an ish say that he would be swallowed up? 
And now men cannot look at the bright ohr which is in the clouds, when the ruach passeth, and cleareth them. 
Splendor of zahav cometh out of the north; with Elo'ah is awesome hod (majesty). 
Touching Shaddai, we cannot reach Him; He is exalted in ko'ach, and in mishpat, and rov tzedakah; He does not oppress. 
Anashim do therefore fear Him; He regardeth not any that are wise of heart. 
