YOCHANAN.
Chapter 10.
Omein, omein, I say to you, the one not entering through the derech hasha'ar (way of the entrance) into the mikhla haTzon (fold enclosure of the sheep) but going up another derech, that one is a ganav and a shoded (robber). 
But the one entering through the derech hasha'ar is Ro'eh haTzon (Shepherd of the flock of sheep). 
To this one the doorkeeper opens, and the tzon hears the Ro'ehʼs voice and the Ro'eh calls b'shem (by name) each of his own tzon and leads them out. 
When the Ro'eh has brought out all his own, he goes ahead of them, and the tzon follow the Ro'eh, because they have da'as of the Ro'ehʼs voice. 
But a zar (stranger, foreigner) they will never follow, but will flee from him, because they do not have da'as of the voice of zarim (strangers, foreigners). 
This figure of speech Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach told them. But those ones did not have binah (understanding) of what he was saying to them. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, therefore, again, Omein, omein, I say to you, Ani Hu the derech hasha'ar (way of the entrance) of the tzon. 
All who came before me are ganavim (thieves) and shodedim (robbers), but the tzon did not listen to them. 
I am the derech hasha'ar. Through me, if anyone enters, he will come to yeshu'at Eloheinu and will go in and will go out and will find mir'eh (pasture). 
The ganav does not come except in order that he may steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have Chayyim (Life) and that they may have it more abundantly. 
I am the Ro'eh HaTov (the Good Shepherd). The Ro'eh HaTov lays down his neshamah for the tzon. 
The gedungener, the one who is not the Ro'eh — the hireling, the one to whom the tzon does not belong — this hireling sees the ze'ev (wolf) coming and abandons the tzon and runs for his life and the ze'ev seizes them and scatters them. 
This happens because he is a hireling and the tzon means nothing to him. 
Ani Hu the Ro'eh HaTov, and I have da'as of my tzon and my tzon has da'as of me. 
Just as HaAv has da'as of me and I have da'as of HaAv, so I lay down my neshamah for the tzon. 
And another tzon I have which is not of this mikhla (fold); those also it is necessary for me to bring, and my voice they will hear, and they will become eder echad with Ro'eh echad (One flock with one Shepherd). 
Therefore, HaAv has ahavah for me, because I lay down my neshamah that I may take it up again. 
No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have samchut (authority) to lay it down, and I have samchut to receive it again. This mitzvah I received from HaAv of me. 
There was a machloket (division of dissension) again among those of Yehudah, because of these devarim of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And many of them were saying, He has a shed (demon), and He is meshuga — why do you listen to him? 
Others said, These devarim are not of one being possessed of shedim. Surely a shed (demon) is not able to open the eyes of an ivver (blind man)? 
Then the Chag (Festival) of Chanukah took place in Yerushalayim. It was winter. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was walking around in the Beis Hamikdash in the area called Ulam Sh'lomo (Solomonʼs Colonnade). 
Then those of Yehudah encircled Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and were saying to him, How much longer are you going to hold our neshamot in suspense? If you are the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, tell us openly. 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, I did tell you and you do not have emunah. The pe'ulot which I do b'Shem Avi, these pe'ulot give solemn edut (testimony) about me. 
But you do not have emunah (faith), because you do not belong to my Tzon. 
My Tzon hear my voice, and I have da'as of them, and they follow me. 
And I give to them Chayyei Olam, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. 
That which Avi has given me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch out of the hand of HaAv. 
I and HaAv are echad. 
Again those of Yehudah took up stones that they might stone him. 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Many ma'asim tovim I showed you from HaAv. Because of which ma'aseh do you stone me? 
In reply, those of Yehudah said to him, For a ma'aseh tov we do not stone you, but for Chillul Hashem and because you, being a man, make yourself G-d. 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach answered them, Has it not been written in your Torah, ANI AMARTI ELOHIM ATEM(I said you are g-ds). 
If those ones he called g-ds, to whom the Dvar Hashem came and LO YUFAR KITVEI HAKODESH (and the Kitvei Hakodesh cannot be broken), 
Can you say of the One whom HaAv set apart as HaKadosh and sent into the Olam Hazeh that he commits Chillul Hashem because I said, Ben HaElohim Ani Hu? 
If I do not accomplish the pe'ulot of Avi, do not regard me with bitachon. 
But if I do, even if you do not have emunah in me, chotsh have emunah in the pe'ulot, so that you may continue to have da'as and binah that HaAv is in me and I am in HaAv. 
They were seeking, therefore, again to seize him, and he eluded their hand. 
And he went away again beyond the Yarden to the place where Yochanan was in the beginning giving the mikveh mayimʼs tevilah of teshuvah, and he remained there. 
And many came to him and were saying, Yochanan indeed did no ot (miraculous sign), but everything Yochanan said about this man was HaEmes. 
And many put their emunah (faith) in him there. 
