2 Thessalonians.
Chapter 3.
Lemaskana (finally), Achim b'Moshiach, daven for us, that the Dvar Hashem will run on and be lifted up in kavod, just as it is also with you, 
And that we may be delivered from anshei resha (men of wickedness), for not all possess the Messianic emunah. 
But Ne'eman (Faithful) is Hashem who gives you chozek (strength) and is shomer over you, guarding you from the Evil One. 
And we have bitachon in Hashem concerning you, that you are doing and will continue to do what we have directed. 
Now may Hashem direct your levavot in the Ahavas Hashem and into the savlanut of Moshiach. 
Now we charge you, Achim b'Moshiach, b'Shem Adoneinu Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua, to shun chavrusashaft (association) with every one of the Achim b'Moshiach who follows the derech habatlanim (way of idlers) and walks not according to Moshiachʼs pnimiyus haTorah that was handed over and transmitted to you and which you received from us. 
For you yourselves have da'as how it is necessary to imitate us as a mofet, a role model, because we were not batlanim (idlers) among you. 
Nor did we eat lechem (food) from anyone gratis, but in labor and exertion lailah v'yomam (night and day) we were working for the tachlis (purpose) of not weighing down and burdening any one of you; 
Not because we do not have the zchus (right), but in order that we impart ourselves as a mofet (role model) to you that you might imitate us. 
For even when we were with you, this we used to direct you: that if anyone will not be a po'el (worker), neither let him be an ochel (eater). 
For we hear that some among you are leading the life of a batlan (loafer), not being busy with a parnasah, but being busybodies with hitarevut (meddlesomeness). 
Now such persons we are directing and exhort in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua Adoneinu to work with quietness that they may eat their own lechem. 
But you, Achim b'Moshiach, do not lose chozek in well-doing. 
But if anyone does not obey the gzeira (injunction) in this iggeret hakodesh (holy letter), take special notice of that one; do not have chavrusashaft (association) with him, for the tachlis (purpose) of stirring him with a sense of bushah (shame). 
And do not consider (him) an oyev (enemy) but warn him as an Ach b'Moshiach. 
Now may Elohei HaShalom Himself grant you shalom in every way. Hashem be with you all. 
I, Rav Sha'ul, send Drishat Shalom greetings in my own handwriting, which is the distinctive siman (sign) in every iggeret hakodesh; this is the way I write. 
The unmerited Chen v'Chesed Hashem of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua be with you all.
