IYOV.
Chapter 3.
And Iyov spoke, and said, 
Let the yom perish wherein I was born, and halailah in which it was said, There is a gever born. 
Let that yom be choshech; let not Elohim regard it from above, neither let the light shine upon it. 
Let choshech and the tzalmavet (shadow of death) claim it; let an anan dwell upon it; let the blackness of the yom terrify it. 
As for that lailah, let darkness seize upon it; let it not be joined unto the yamim of the shanah, let it not come into the number of the months. 
Hinei, let that lailah be barren; let no joyful shout come therein. 
Let them curse it that curse the yom, who are ready to rouse Leviathan. 
Let the kokhavim of the dawn thereof be dark; let it look for ohr, but have none; neither let it see the dawning of the shachar, 
Because it shut not up the dalatot of my motherʼs womb, nor hid amal (tzoros) from mine eyes. 
Why did I not come to mot at birth? Why did I not perish when I came out of the beten (belly, womb)? 
Madua (why) were there birkayim to receive me? Or why the shadayim that from them I should nurse? 
For atah (now) I would be lying still and quiet, have slept and been at rest, 
With melachim and yo'atzim of ha'aretz, which build ruins for themselves; 
Or with sarim (princes) that had zahav, who filled their batim (houses) with kesef; 
Or as a hidden stillborn — I had not been! — as olelim which never saw ohr. 
There the resha'im cease from troubling; and there the weary are at rest. 
There the asirim (prisoners, captives) rest together; they hear not the voice of the oppressor. 
The katon and gadol are there; and the eved is free from his adon. 
Why is ohr given to him that is in misery, and chayyim unto the bitter in nefesh; 
Which long for mavet, but it cometh not; and dig for it more than for hidden treasures; 
Which rejoice exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the kever? 
Why is ohr given to a gever whose derech is hidden, and whom Elohim hath hedged in? 
For my sighing cometh instead of lechem, and my groanings are poured out like the mayim. 
For the pachad (terror) which I greatly feared is come upon me, and that which I dreaded is come unto me. 
I was not in safety, neither had I rest, neither was I quiet; and rogez (tzoros, turmoil) came. 
