TEHILLIM.
Chapter 38.
(Mizmor Dovid. For the memorial portion of the mincha) 
Hashem, rebuke me not in Thy wrath; neither chasten me in Thy hot displeasure. 
For Thine khitzim (arrows) pierce me, and Thy Yad presseth upon me. 
There is no health in my basar because of Thine anger; neither is there any shalom in my atzmot because of my chattat. 
For mine avonot (iniquities) are gone over mine head; as a weighty massa (burden) they are too heavy for me. 
My chaburot (wounds) are foul and festering because of my wicked folly. 
I am bent down; I am brought low ad me'od; I go about mourning all day long. 
For my loins are filled with burning; and there is no health in my basar. 
I am feeble and broken ad me'od; I have groaned by reason of the disquietness of my lev. 
Adonoi, all my ta'avah (desire, longing) is before Thee; and my groaning is not hid from Thee. 
My lev panteth, my ko'ach faileth me; as for the ohr of mine eyes, it also is gone from me. 
My loved ones and my re'a stand aloof from my nega; and my neighbors stand afar off. 
They also that seek after my nefesh lay snares for me; and they that seek my hurt speak of ruin, and plot mirmot (deceptions, deceits) all the day long. 
But I, like a cheresh (deaf man), heard not; and I was like a mute that openeth not his mouth. 
Thus I was like an ish that heareth not, and in whose mouth are no tokhachot (reproofs). 
For I wait for Thee, Hashem; Thou wilt hear, Adonoi Elohai. 
For I said, Hear me, lest otherwise they should gloat over me; when my regel slippeth, they magnify themselves against me. 
For I am ready to fall, and my sorrow is before me tamid. 
For I will declare mine avon; I will be in anguish over my chattat. 
But mine oveyim are chayyim (vigorous), and they are strong; and they that hate me sheker (wrongfully) are multiplied. 
They also that repay ra'ah for tovah are mine adversaries; because I pursue the thing that is tov. 
Forsake me not, Hashem Elohai; be not far from me. 
Make haste to help me, Adonoi Teshuati (L-rd of my salvation). 
