MISHLE.
Chapter 25.
These are also mishlei Sh'lomo, which the anashim of Chizkiyah Melech Yehudah copied out: 
It is the Kavod Elohim to conceal a thing, but the kavod melachim is to search out a matter. 
The Shomayim for height, and Eretz for depth, so the lev melachim is unsearchable. 
Take away the dross from the kesef, and there shall come forth a vessel for the tzoref (silversmith); 
Take away the rasha from before Melech, and his kisse shall be established in tzedek. 
Do not exalt thyself in the presence of Melech, and stand not in the makom (place) of gedolim; 
For better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up here, than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the noble whom thine eynayim have seen. 
Go not forth hastily to bring a lawsuit, lest thou know not what to do in the acharit thereof, when thy re'a hath put thee to shame. 
Plead thy cause with thy re'a himself; and betray not a sod (confidence) to another, 
Lest he that heareth it put thee to shame, and the evil report of thee never depart. 
A word aptly spoken is like tapukhim (apples) of zahav in settings of kesef. 
As a nezem (earring) of zahav, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a mochi'ach chacham (a wise reprover) upon an obedient ozen. 
As the cold of sheleg (snow) in the yom katzir (day of harvest), so is a tzir ne'eman (faithful envoy) to them that send him; for he refresheth the nefesh of his adonim. 
He who boasteth falsely of giving is like clouds and ruach (wind) without geshem (rain). 
By forbearance is a katzin (ruler) persuaded, and a gentle lashon breaketh the bone. 
Hast thou found devash? Eat only as much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be filled therewith, and vomit it out. 
Let thy regel (foot) seldom be in thy neighborʼs bais; lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee. 
An ish that beareth ed sheker (false witness) against his re'a is a club, and a cherev, and a sharp khetz (arrow). 
Confidence in a boged in the yom tzarah is like a shen ra'ah (bad tooth), and a regel out of joint. 
As he that taketh away a beged (garment) on a cold day, and as chometz (vinegar) upon lye, so is he that singeth shirim (songs) to a lev rah (heavy heart). 
If thine enemy be hungry, give him lechem to eat, and if he be thirsty, give him mayim to drink; 
For so shalt thou heap hot coals upon his rosh, and Hashem shall reward thee. 
The ruach tzafon (north wind) brings forth geshem; so doth a lashon seter (backbiting tongue) bring an angry countenance. 
It is better to dwell in the corner of the gag (roof), than in a bais shared with a quarrelsome isha. 
As cold mayim to a weary nefesh, so is good news from a far country. 
A tzaddik who falters before the rasha is like a muddy spring, and a polluted makor (fountain). 
It is not tov to eat much devash; so for men to seek their own kavod is not glory. 
He that hath no rule over his own ruach is like an ir that is broken down, and without a chomah (wall). 
