Romans.
Chapter 8.
Therefore, now there is no gezar din (verdict) of ashem (guilty), no harsha'ah (condemnation as guilty) for those in Moshiach Yehoshua. 
For the Torah of the Ruach HaKodesh that gives Chayyim in Moshiach Yehoshua has set me free from the “Gezetz” of Chet and Mavet. 
For what the Gezetz was unable to do in that it was weak through the basar, G-d sent his own Zun fun der Oybershter in the very demut (likeness) of the basar of sinful humanity and as a chattat(sin offering, sin atoning sacrifice), and both pronounced and effected a sentence of death on HaChet baBasar (Sin in the Flesh, in the fallen old humanity), 
In order that the maleh chukat haTorah(the full statute requirement of the Torah) might be fulfilled in us whose halakhah is in the Derech HaChayyim (the Way of Life) according to the Ruach Hakodesh and not in accordance with the basar. 
For those who exist in terms of the basar take the side of the basar, whereas those who exist in terms of the Ruach take the side of the Ruach Hakodesh. 
For the way of thinking of the basar is mavet (death), whereas the way of thinking of the Ruach Hakodesh is Chayyim and Shalom. 
Because the way of thinking of the basar is hostility, eyvah(enmity) toward G-d, for it does not submit itself to the Gezetz of G-d; for it cannot. 
And those who are in the basar are not able to please Hashem. 
However, you are not in the basar but in the Ruach Hakodesh, assuming that the Ruach Hakodesh of Hashem does indeed dwell in you — if anyone does not have the Ruach HaMoshiach, that person does not belong to Moshiach. 
And if Moshiach is in you, the body (of the basar) is dead because of sin but the Ruach is life for you because of Tzedek (righteousness). 
But if the Ruach Hakodesh of Him who gave Yehoshua Techiyah (Resurrection) from the Mesim dwells in you, He who raised Moshiach from the Mesim will give Chayyim to your mortal bodies as well, through His indwelling Ruach Hakodesh in you. 
So then, Achim b'Moshiach, we are under no obligation to the basar to live in accordance with the basar. 
For if you live in accordance with the basar you will certainly die; but if by the Ruach Hakodesh you put to death the shameful acts of the body, you will live. 
For as many as are led by the Ruach HaElohim, they are bnei HaElohim. 
For you did not receive a spirit of avdut, falling back into pachad (fear); but you received the Ruach of Mishpat HaBanim (Adoption), having Ma'amad HaBanim (the standing as Sons), by which we cry, “Abba, Avinu!” 
The Ruach Hakodesh himself bears eidus (witness) with our ruach that we are bnei HaElohim. 
And if bnei HaElohim, then also yoreshim (heirs) of G-d and co-heirs together with Moshiach, provided that we suffer with him in order that we might also be set in kavod (glory, eschatological glorification) with him. 
For I reckon that the yisurim (suffering) of zman hazeh (of this present time) are not to be compared with the coming kavod (glory) to be revealed in us. 
For the eager expectation of HaBri'ah (the Creation) awaits the heavenly hisgalus (revelation, unveiling) of the bnei HaElohim. 
For HaBri'ah (the Creation) was subjected to hevel (futility), not willingly, but on account of Him who subjected it, in tikvah (hope), 
Because HaBri'ah also itself will be set free from the avdut (slavery) of corruption into the deror(freedom) of the kavod (glory) of the bnei HaElohim. 
For we have da'as that the whole Bri'ah groans and suffers the chevlei leydah (pangs of childbirth) until now. 
And not only so, but also we ourselves who have the bikkurim (first fruits) of the Ruach Hakodesh also groan within ourselves, eagerly awaiting the Mishpat HaBanim Adoption, that is, the pedut geviyyateinu for the Techiyah from HaMesim. 
For in tikvah (hope) we were delivered in eschatological salvation. But tikvah (hope) which is seen is not tikvah, for who hopes for what he sees? 
But if we have tikvah for what we do not see, we eagerly await it with savlanut. 
In the same way, the Ruach Hakodesh helps us in our weakness. For as we daven, we do not know as we should for what to make tefillos (prayers), but the Ruach HaKodesh Himself intercedes on our behalf with labor pang groans not intelligibly uttered. 
And He who searches the levavot knows what is the way of thinking of the Ruach Hakodesh, because He intercedes as G-d would have it on behalf of the Kedoshim. 
And we have da'as that for those who love Hashem everything co-operates toward HaTov for those who are HaKeru'im (the summoned, called ones) according to the etzah (wisdom) of the tochnit Hashem(G-dʼs purposeful and willed plan or goal). 
For those Hashem had da'as of beterem(beforehand), Hashem also decided upon from the beginning to be conformed to the demut (likeness) of Hashemʼs Zun fun der Oybershter, that he should be HaBechor (Firstborn) among many Achim b'Moshiach. 
And those Hashem decided upon from the beginning Hashem also summoned; and those Hashem summoned, Hashem also acquitted and pronounced to be YITZDAK IM HASHEM; and those Hashem acquitted and pronounced to be YITZDAK IM HASHEM, Hashem also set in eternal kavod (glory). 
In view of these things, what therefore shall we say? If Hashem is for us, who is against us? 
He who indeed did not spare His own Zun fun der Oybershter, but gave him up for us all, how shall He not also with him give us all things. 
Who will bring charges against the Bechirei HaElohim (chosen ones of Hashem)? It is Hashem who acquits and pronounces to be YITZDAK IM HASHEM (justified with G-d). 
Who is there to bring a judgment of harsha'ah(condemnation, to condemn to Onesh Gehinnom)? It is Moshiach Yehoshua who died, rather was kam litechiyah (raised to resurrection), who also is at LIMIN HASHEM(the right hand of G-d), who also intercedes on our behalf. 
Who will separate us from the Ahavas Moshiach (love of Moshiach)? Tzoros (affliction, trouble), or distress, or redifot (persecutions), or hunger, or nakedness, or danger, or cherev(sword)? 
As it is written, KI ALECHA HORAGNU KOL HAYOM NECHESHAVNU K'TZON TIVCHAH(For Your sake we are being killed all the day; we are reckoned as sheep for slaughter). 
But in all these things we prevail bichlal (entirely) through Him who had ahavah for us. 
For I am convinced that neither Histalkus nor Chayyim nor Malachim nor Rulers, neither things present nor things to come nor kochot (powers), 
Neither height nor depth nor any other creature will be able to separate us from the ahavas Hashem which is in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua Adoneinu. 
