BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 12.
And Miryam and Aharon spoke against Moshe because of the Cushite woman whom he had married; for he had married a Kushite woman. 
And they said, Hath Hashem indeed spoken only by Moshe? Hath He not spoken also by us? And Hashem heard it. 
(Now the man Moshe was anav me'od, above all the men which were upon the face of ha'adamah.) 
And Hashem spoke suddenly unto Moshe, and unto Aharon, and unto Miryam, Come out ye three unto the Ohel Mo'ed. And they three came out. 
And Hashem came down in an Ammud Anan, and stood in the entrance of the Ohel, and He called Aharon and Miryam; and they both came forth. 
And He said, Hear now My words: If there be a navi among you, I Hashem will reveal Myself unto him in a mar'ah (vision), and will speak unto him in a chalom. 
Avdi Moshe is not so, who is ne'eman (faithful) in all Mine Bais. 
With him will I speak peh el peh, plainly, and not in dark sayings; and the temuna (form) of Hashem shall he behold; why then were ye not afraid to speak against Avdi Moshe? 
And the anger of Hashem was kindled against them; and He departed. 
And the Anan departed from off the Ohel Moed; and, hinei, Miryam became metzora'at (leprous), white as snow: and Aharon looked upon Miryam, and, hinei, she was metzora'at. 
And Aharon said unto Moshe, Alas, adoni, I beseech thee, hold not the chattat (sin) against us, wherein we have done foolishly, and wherein we have sinned. 
Let her not be as one dead, of whom the basar is half consumed when he cometh out of his motherʼs womb. 
And Moshe cried unto Hashem, saying, El (G-d), refah (heal) her now, I beseech thee. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, If her av had but spit in her face, should she not be in disgrace seven days? Let her be exiled from the machaneh seven days, and after that let her be received in again. 
And Miryam was exiled from the machaneh seven days; and HaAm did not set out till Miryam was received in again. 
And afterward HaAm removed from Chatzerot, and encamped in the Midbar Paran. 
