YESHAYAH.
Chapter 26.
In that day shall this shir (song) be sung in Eretz Yehudah: We have an Ir Oz (a city of strength); Yeshu'ah (salvation) is that which He makes its chomot (walls) and outer wall. 
Open ye the She'arim, that the Goy Tzaddik (right-with-G-d people) which is shomer emunim (keeping faith) may enter in. 
Thou wilt keep him in shalom shalom, whose yetzer (mind-set) is stayed on Thee; because he trusteth in Thee. 
Trust ye in Hashem forever; for in G-d Hashem is Tzur Olamin; 
For He bringeth down them that dwell on marom (high); the lofty city, He layeth it low; He layeth it low, even ad eretz; He bringeth it even to aphar (dust). 
The regel (foot) shall trample it down, even the feet of the oni (oppressed), and the footsteps of the dalim (poor, downtrodden, needy). 
The Orakh Latzaddik (way of the just) is meiysharim (altogether level, upright, direct ones); Thou, O Yashar (Upright One, Straight One), straighten the ma'agal (circuit) of the tzaddik. 
Indeed, in the orakh of Thy mishpatim, Hashem, have we waited for Thee; our ta'avat nefesh (yearning of soul) is for Thy Shem, and for the zekher (memory, remembrance) of Thee. 
With my nefesh have I desired thee in the lailah; yes, with my ruach within me will I seek Thee; for when Thy mishpatim are upon ha'aretz, the inhabitants of the tevel will learn tzedek. 
Let grace be shown to the rasha, yet he will not learn tzedek; in the Eretz Nekhochot (Land of Straightforwardness) he will deal unjustly, and will not regard the ge'ut Hashem(majesty, exaltedness of Hashem). 
Hashem, when Thy Yad (hand, power) is lifted up, they will not see; but let them see and be ashamed of their kinat Am (envy of G-dʼs people); indeed, the eish of Thine enemies shall devour them. 
Hashem, Thou wilt ordain shalom for us; for Thou also hast wrought all our ma'asim (works, deeds) in us. 
Hashem Eloheinu, other adonim besides Thee have had dominion over us; but by Thee only do we keep Thy Shem in remembrance. 
They are mesim (dead ones), they shall not live; they are refa'im (dead ones), they shall not rise; therefore Thou hast visited and destroyed them, and made all their zekher (memory) to perish. 
Thou hast increased the Goy (nation, people), Hashem, Thou hast increased the Goy; Thou hast gained glory; Thou hadst extended all the borders of the Eretz. 
Hashem, in tzoros have they visited Thee, they davened a lachash (whisper) when Thy musar (chastening) was upon them. 
Like a woman with child, that draweth near the time of her delivery, in travail, and crieth out in her pangs; so have we been in Thy sight, Hashem. 
We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth ruach (wind); we have not wrought yeshu'ot (salvation of any kind) in Eretz; neither have inhabitants of the tevel (world) been born. 
Thy mesim(dead men) shall live, together with my nevelah (dead bodies, corpses) shall they arise. Awake and sing for joy, ye that dwell in aphar (dust); for Thy tal (dew) is like the orot tal (morning dew), and Eretz shall give birth to repha'im (dead ones). 
Come, My people, enter thou into thy chederim, and shut thy delatot behind thee; hide thyself for a little rega (moment, while), until the za'am (wrath, indignation of G-d) has passed. 
For, hinei, Hashem goeth forth from His Makom (place, home) to punish the avon (iniquity) of inhabitants of ha'aretz; ha'aretz also shall disclose her dahm, and shall no more cover over her slain. 
