Ekhah.
Chapter 1.
How doth HaIr (the city, Yerushalayim) sit solitary, that was full of people! How is she become like an almanah (widow)! She that was great among the Goyim, and sarah (princess) among the provinces, how is she become a forced laborer! 
She weepeth bitterly in the lailah (night), and her tears are on her cheeks; among all her lovers she hath no Menachem (comforter); all her friends have dealt treacherously with her; they have become her enemies. 
Yehudah is gone into the Golus (Exile) under affliction, and under great avodah (servitude); she dwelleth among the Goyim; she findeth no manoach (rest); all her rodefim (persecutors) overtook her in dire straits. 
The darkhei Tziyon (approaches to Tziyon) do mourn, because none come to mo'ed (set feasts); all her she'arim (gates) are desolate; her kohanim sigh, her betulot (virgins) are afflicted, and she is in bitterness. 
Her adversaries are now the rosh (supreme, master); her enemies prosper; for Hashem hath afflicted her because of the multitude of her peysha'im (transgressions); her olalim (little children) are gone into captivity before the enemy. 
And from Bat Tziyon all her beauty has departed; her sarim (princes) are become like deer that find no pasture, and they are gone without strength before the rodef (persecutor, pursuer). 
In the yamim (days) of her affliction and of her persecutions, Yerushalayim remembers all her pleasant things that she had miymei kedem (in the days of old). When her people fell into the hand of the enemy, and there was no ozer (helper) for her, the adversaries saw her, and did mock at her downfall. 
Yerushalayim hath grievously sinned; therefore she is niddah(unclean, Jewish womanʼs untouchability during menstruation); all that honored her despise her, because they have seen her erom (nakedness); yea, she sigheth, and turneth away for shame. 
Her filthiness is in her skirts; she remembereth not her latter end; therefore she sank appallingly; she had no Menachem (comforter). O Hashem, behold my affliction; for the enemy hath triumphed. 
The adversary hath spread out his hand upon all her precious things; for she hath seen how the Goyim entered into her Beis Hamikdash, whom Thou didst command that they should not enter into Thy Kahal (congregation, community). 
All her people sigh, they seek lechem; they have given their precious things for bread to revive the nefesh; see, O Hashem, and consider that I am become despised. 
Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by? Consider, and see if there be any sorrow like my sorrow, which is done unto me, wherewith Hashem hath afflicted me in the Yom Charon Af (day of His fierce anger). 
From above hath He sent eish into my atzamot (bones), and it prevaileth against them; He hath spread a net for my feet, He hath turned me back; He hath made me desolate and kol hayom (ever) languishing. 
The yoke of my peysha'im hath been fastened by His hand; they intertwine themselves and set upon my tzavar (neck); He hath made my strength to fall; Adonoi hath delivered me into their hands, from whom I am not able to rise up. 
Adonoi hath taken away all my strong ones in my midst; He hath proclaimed a mo'ed (set time) against me to crush my young men; Adonoi hath trodden the winepress for the Betulat Bat Yehudah. 
For these things I weep; mine eye, mine eye runneth down with mayim, because the Menachem (comforter) that should refresh my nefesh is far from me; my children are desolate, because the enemy hath prevailed. 
Tziyon stretcheth forth her hands, yet there is no Menachem (comforter) for her; Hashem hath commanded concerning Ya'akov, that his adversaries should be round about him; Yerushalayim is as a niddah (menstruous woman) among them. 
Tzaddik is Hashem; for I have rebelled against His mouth; hear, I pray you, kol amim (all people), and behold my sorrow; my betulot and my bochurim are gone into captivity. 
I called for my lovers, but they have deceived me; my kohanim and my zekenim gave up the ghost in HaIr (the City), while they sought okhel (food) to revive their nefashot. 
Consider, O Hashem how I am in distress; my bowels are troubled; mine lev is turned within me; for I have grievously rebelled; without, the cherev (sword) bereaveth, within it is like mavet (death). 
They have heard that I sigh; there is no Menachem (comforter); all mine enemies have heard of my trouble; they are glad that Thou hast done it; Thou bringest the Yom Karata (the day that Thou has proclaimed), that they all the peoples may be like me. 
Let all their wickedness come before Thee; and do unto them, as Thou hast done unto me for all my peysha'im; for my sighs are many, and my lev is faint. 
