SHEMOT.
Chapter 37.
And Betzalel made the Aron of acacia wood; two cubits and a half was the length of it, and a cubit and a half the width of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it; 
And he overlaid it with zahav tahor within and without, and made a crown of zahav all around. 
And he cast for it four rings of zahav, to be set by the four corners of it; even two rings upon the one side of it, and two rings upon the other side of it. 
And he made carrying poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with zahav. 
And he put the carrying poles into the rings on the sides of the Aron, to bear the Aron. 
And he made the Kapporet of zahav tahor; two cubits and a half was the length thereof, and one cubit and a half the width thereof. 
And he made two keruvim of zahav, hammered out of one piece made he them, on the two ends of the Kapporet; 
One keruv on the end on this side, and another keruv on the other end on that side; from the Kapporet made he the keruvim on the two ends thereof. 
And the keruvim spread out their wings on high, and covered with their wings over the Kapporet, with their faces one to another; even toward the Kapporet were the faces of the keruvim. 
And he made the Shulchan of acacia wood: two cubits was the length thereof, and a cubit the width thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof; 
And he overlaid it with zahav tahor, and made thereunto a crown of zahav all around. 
Also he made thereunto a misgeret (moulding, rim) of a handbreadth all around; and made a crown of zahav for the misgeret thereof all around. 
And he cast for it four rings of zahav, and put the rings upon the four corners of its four legs thereof. 
Over against the misgeret were the rings, the housing for the carrying poles to bear the Shulchan. 
And he made the carrying poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with zahav, to bear the Shulchan. 
And he made the utensils which were upon the Shulchan, its dishes, and its pans, and its bowls, and its pitchers for pouring nesekh, of zahav tahor. 
And he made the Menorah of zahav tahor; of hammered-out work made he the Menorah; its base and its shaft, and its cups, its knobs, its flowers, were of the same; 
And six branches going out of the sides thereof; three branches of the Menorah out of the one side thereof, and three branches of the Menorah out of the other side thereof; 
Shloshah cups made like almonds in one branch, a knob and a flower; and three cups made like almonds in another branch, a knob and a flower; so throughout the six branches going out of the Menorah. 
And in the Menorah were four cups made like almonds, its knobs, and its flowers; 
And a knob under two branches of the same, and a knob under two branches of the same, and a knob under two branches of the same, according to the six branches going out of it. 
Their knobs and their branches were of the same: all of it was one hammered-out work of zahav tahor. 
And he made its seven nerot (lamps), and its tongs, and its spoons, of zahav tahor. 
Of a talent of zahav tahor made he it, and all the utensils thereof. 
And he made the Mizbe'ach HaKetoret of acacia wood; the length of it was a cubit, and the width of it a cubit; it was ravu'a (square, foursquare); and two cubits was the height of it; from it were its karenot. 
And he overlaid it with zahav tahor, both the top of it, and the sides thereof all around, and the karenot of it; also he made unto it a crown of zahav all around. 
And he made two rings of zahav for it under the crown thereof, by the two corners of it, upon the two sides thereof, to be housing for the carrying poles to bear it withal. 
And he made the carrying poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with zahav. 
And he made the Shemen HaMishchah Kodesh, and the ketoret spices, tahor, according to the artistic work of a perfumer. 
