DIVREY HAYAMIM ALEF.
Chapter 2.
These are the Bnei Yisroel: Reuven, Shim'on, Levi, and Yehudah, Yissakhar, and Zevulun, 
Dan, Yosef, and Binyamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
The Bnei Yehudah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, which three were born unto him of Bat-Shu'a the Kena'anit. And Er, the bechor of Yehudah, was rah in the eyes of Hashem; and He put him to death. 
And Tamar his kallah (daughter-in-law) bore him Peretz and Zerach. All the Bnei Yehudah were five. 
The Bnei Peretz: Chetzron, and Chamul. 
And the Bnei Zerach; Zimri, and Eitan, and Heman, and Kalkol, and Dara, five of them in all. 
And the Bnei Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Yisroel, who transgressed the cherem. 
And the Bnei Eitan; Azaryah. 
The Bnei Chetzron also, that were born unto him: Yerachme'el, and Ram, and Keluvai. 
And Ram fathered Amminadav; and Amminadav fathered Nachshon Nasi Bnei Yehudah; 
And Nachshon fathered Salma; Salma fathered Boaz, 
And Boaz fathered Oved, and Oved fathered Yishai, 
And Yishai fathered his bechor Eliav, and Avinadav the second, and Shime'a the third, 
Netanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, 
Otzem the sixth, Dovid the seventh; 
Whose achayot (sisters) were Tzeruyah, and Avigal. And the Bnei Tzeruyah: Avishai, and Yoav, and Asahel, three. 
And Avigal bore Amasa, and avi Amasa was Yeter the Yishme'eli. 
And Kalev Ben Chetzron fathered by Azuvah his isha, and by Yeriot; her banim are these; Yesher, and Shovav, and Ardon. 
And when Azuvah was dead, Kalev took as isha unto him Ephrat, which bore him Chur. 
And Chur fathered Uri, and Uri fathered Betzalel. 
And afterward Chetzron went in to the Bat Machir avi Gil'ad, whom he married when his age was threescore shanim; and she bore him Seguv. 
And Seguv fathered Yair, who had three and twenty towns in Eretz Gil'ad. 
And he took Geshur, and Aram, with Chavvot Yair, from them, with Kenat, and the towns thereof, even threescore towns. All these belonged to the Bnei Machir avi Gil'ad. 
And after that Chetzron was dead in Kalev Ephratah, then Aviyah Chetzronʼs isha bore him Ashchur avi Tekoa. 
And the Bnei Yerachme'el the bechor of Chetzron were Ram the bechor, and Bunah, and Oren, and Otzem, and Achiyah. 
Yerachme'el had also another isha, whose shem was Atarah; she was the em of Onam. 
And the Bnei Ram the bechor of Yerachme'el were Ma'atz, and Yamin, and Eker. 
And the Bnei Onam were Shammai, and Yada. And the Bnei Shammai; Nadav and Avishur. 
And the shem of the isha of Avishur was Avihayil, and she bore him Achban, and Molid. 
And the Bnei Nadav: Seled, and Apayim, but Seled died without banim. 
And the Bnei Apayim; Yishi. And the Bnei Yishi; Sheshan. And the Bnei Sheshan; Achlai. 
And the Bnei Yada the brother of Shammai: Yeter, and Yonatan, and Yeter died without banim. 
And the Bnei Yonatan: Pelet, and Zaza. These were the Bnei Yerachme'el. 
Now Sheshan had no banim, but only banot. And Sheshan had an eved, a Mitzri (an Egyptian), shmo Yarcha. 
And Sheshan gave his bat to Yarcha his eved as isha; and she bore him Attai. 
And Attai fathered Natan, and Natan fathered Zavad, 
And Zavad fathered Ephlal, and Ephlal fathered Oved, 
And Oved fathered Yehu, and Yehu fathered Azaryah, 
And Azaryah fathered Cheletz, and Cheletz fathered El'asah, 
And El'asah fathered Sismai, and Sismai fathered Shallum, 
And Shallum fathered Yekamyah, and Yekamyah fathered Elishama. 
Now the Bnei Kalev the brother of Yerachme'el were Mesha his bechor, who was avi Ziph; and the Bnei Mareshah avi Chevron. 
And the Bnei Chevron; Korach, and Tapuach, and Rekem, and Shema. 
And Shema fathered Racham avi Yorko'am; and Rekem fathered Shammai. 
And the Ben of Shammai was Ma'on, and Ma'on was avi Beit-Tzur. 
And Ephah, Kalevʼs pilegesh, bore Charan, Motza, Gazez; and Charan fathered Gazez. 
And the Bnei Yahdai; Regem, and Yotam, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Eiphah, and Sha'aph. 
Ma'achah, Kalevʼs pilegesh (concubine), bore Shever, and Tirchanah. 
She bore also Sha'aph avi Madmannah, Sheva avi Machbenah, and avi Giv'a; and the Bat Kalev was Achsah. 
These were the Bnei Kalev. Ben Chur, the bechor of Ephratah; Shoval avi Kiryat-Ye'arim. 
Salma avi Beit-lechem, Chareph avi Beit-Gader. 
And Shoval avi Kiryat-Ye'arim had banim; Haroeh, and half of Menuchot. 
And the mishpekhot of Kiryat-Ye'arim; the Yitri, and the Puti, and the Shumati, and the Mishra'i; of them came the Tzorati, and the Eshta'oli. 
The Bnei Salma; Beit-lechem, and the Netophati, Atrot Bais Yoav, and half of the Manachati, the Tzori. 
And the mishpekhot of the sofrim (scribes) which dwelt at Yabetz; the Tiratim, the Shime'atim, and Sukhatim. These are the Kenim that came of Chammat avi Bais Rechav. 
