BERESHIS.
Chapter 7.
And Hashem said unto Noach, Come thou and all thy bais into the tevah (ark); for thee have I found tzaddik before Me in dor hazeh. 
Of every behemah hatehorah thou shalt take to thee by sevens; the male and his mate; and of behemah that are not tehorah by two, the male and his mate. 
Of also Oph HaShomayim by sevens, the zachar and the nekevah; to keep zera alive upon the face of kol ha'aretz. 
For shivah yamim from now, and I will cause it to rain upon ha'aretz arba'im yom and arba'im lailah; and every living creature that I have made will I wipe out from off the p'nei ha'adamah. 
And Noach did according unto all that Hashem commanded him. 
And Noach was shesh me'ot shanah when the mabbul waters were upon ha'aretz. 
And Noach entered in, and his banim, and his isha, and nashim of his banim with him, into the tevah (ark), because of the waters of the mabbul. 
Of behemah hatehorah, and of behemah that are not tehorah, and of haoph, and of every thing that creepeth upon ha'adamah, 
There went in shnayim shnayim unto Noach into the tevah (ark), the zachar and the nekevah, as Elohim had commanded Noach. 
And it came to pass after shivat hayamim, that the waters of the mabbul were upon ha'aretz. 
In the six hundredth year of Noachʼs life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains of the great deep burst open, and the floodgates of Shomayim were opened. 
And the geshem was upon ha'aretz arba'im yom and arba'im lailah. 
On that very yom entered Noach, and Shem, and Cham, and Yephet, the bnei Noach, and Noachʼs isha, and the three nashim of his banim with them, into the tevah (ark); 
They, and every beast after its kind, and kol habehemah after their kind, and every remes that crawls upon ha'aretz after its kind, and kol haoph after its kind, every bird of every sort. 
And they went in unto Noach into the tevah (ark), shnayim shnayim of kol habasar, wherein is the ruach chayyim. 
And they that went in, went in zachar and nekevah of kol basar, as Elohim had commanded him; then Hashem shut him in. 
And the mabbul was arba'im yom upon ha'aretz; and the waters increased, and lifted up the tevah (ark), and it rose above ha'aretz. 
And the waters rose, and were increased greatly upon ha'aretz; and the tevah (ark) floated upon the face of the waters. 
And the waters rose exceedingly upon ha'aretz; and all the high hills, that were under kol HaShomayim, were covered. 
Fifteen cubits upward did the waters rise; and the harim were covered. 
And kol basar perished that moved upon ha'aretz, both of Oph, and of Behemah, and of Beast, and of every Swarming Thing that swarms upon ha'aretz, and kol haadam; 
All in whose nostrils was the ruach chayyim, of all that was in the dry land, perished. 
And every living creature was wiped out which was upon the p'nei haadamah, both Adam, and Behemah, and the Remes, and the Oph HaShomayim; and they were wiped out from ha'aretz: and Noach only remained alive, and they that were with him in the tevah (ark). 
And the waters flooded upon ha'aretz a hundred and fifty days. 
