YOCHANAN.
Chapter 6.
After these things, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach departed beyond Lake Kinneret (Lake Tiberias). 
And a riezige (sizable) multitude was following him, because they were seeing the otot (miraculous signs) which he was doing on the cholim (the ones being ill). 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach went up to the mountain, and there he was sitting with his talmidim. 
Pesach was near at hand, the Chag (Jewish Feast). 
Therefore, having lifted up his eyes, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach saw that a great multitude is coming to him, and he says to Philippos, From where may we buy lechem that these ones may eat? 
But he was saying this to test Philippos, for he himself knew what he was about to do. 
In reply, Philippos said, Two hundred denarii worth of lechem would not be enough that each one may take a little okhel. 
One of his talmidim, Andrew, ach of Shim'on Kefa, says to him, 
There is a na'ar (lad) here who has five barley loaves and two dagim (fish), but what are these for so many? 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Instruct the anashim (men) to recline. Now there was much grass in the area. Therefore the anashim reclined, their number being about chameshet alafim. 
Therefore, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach took the loaves and, having made the bracha, distributed to the ones bimesibba (reclining); likewise also he distributed of the dagim (fish) as much as they were wanting. 
Now when they were filled, he tells his talmidim, Gather the shirayim (Rebbeʼs leftovers), that nothing may be lost. 
Therefore, what they gathered from the five barley loaves filled Sheneym Asar (Twelve) baskets of shirayim left over by the ones having eaten. 
Therefore, the anashim, having seen what ot (miraculous sign) he did, were saying, This one is beemes the Navi, Hu HaBah, the one coming into the Olam Hazeh. 
Therefore, Yehoshua, having had da'as that they are about to come and to seize him that they might make him king by force, departed alone again to the mountain, withdrawing by himself. 
And as erev came, his talmidim went down to the sea. 
And having embarked into a sirah, they were going across the sea to K'far-Nachum. And choshech already had come and Yehoshua had not yet come to them. 
And the sea, as a great wind blew, was becoming aroused. 
Therefore, having rowed about esrim v'chamash or sheloshim stadia, they see Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach walking on the sea and coming near the sirah, and they were gefeirlich (horribly) frightened. 
But he says to them, Ani Hu. Do not be afraid. 
Therefore, the talmidim were willing to receive him into the sirah. And immediately the sirah came to the shore to which they were going. 
On the next day the multitude that had stayed on the other side of Lake Kinneret saw that there had been only one sirah with which to cross the sea. They knew that Yehoshua had not embarked with his talmidim in that sirah, but that his talmidim had departed by themselves. 
Then some sirot (boats) came ashore from Tiberias and landed near the area where they ate the lechem after Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu had made the bracha. 
Therefore, when the multitude saw Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach is not there, nor his talmidim, they embarked into the sirot and came to K'far-Nachum, seeking Yehoshua. 
And having found him across the sea, they said to him, Rebbe, when did you come here? 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Omein, omein, I say to you, you are seeking me not because you saw otot (miraculous signs), but because you ate of the loaves and were glutted. 
Do not work for the okhel that is perishing, but for the okhel remaining to Chayyei Olam, which the Bar Enosh will give to you, for Elohim HaAv has set His chotam (seal) on this one. 
Therefore, they said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, What may we do that we may work the pe'ulot Hashem? 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, This is the mitzvah of Hashem, that you may believe in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach whom Hashem has sent. 
They said, therefore, to him, What ot (sign) then do you perform that we may see and may have emunah in you? What work do you do? 
Avoteinu ate the manna in the wilderness, as it has been written, LECHEM from SHOMAYIM he gave them to eat. 
Therefore, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Omein, omein, I say to you, it was not Moshe who has given you the lechem out of Shomayim, but HaAv of me gives you the lechem ha'amitti (the true bread) out of Shomayim. 
For the lechem of Hashem is that which comes down out of Shomayim and giving Chayyim (Life) to HaOlam. 
Therefore, they said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Adoni, always give us this lechem. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Ani Hu the lechem haChayyim; the one coming to me never hungers, and the one with emunah in me will never thirst again. 
But I said to you that you have seen me and yet you do not have bitachon, you lack emunah. 
All which HaAv gives to me will come to me, and the one coming to me I will never turn away. 
For I have come down from Shomayim not that I may do my ratzon, but the ratzon of the One having sent me. 
Now this is the ratzon of the One Who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all which He has given me, but I will raise him up on the Yom HaAcharon (Last Day). 
For this is the ratzon of Avi: that everyone seeing the Ben and believing in him may have Chayyei Olam, and on Yom HaAcharon I will raise him up. 
Therefore, those of Yehudah were murmuring about Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, because he said, Ani Hu the lechem having come down out of Shomayim. 
And they were saying, Is this man not Yehoshua Ben Yosef, and do we not know his Av and his Em? Now how does he say, Out of Shomayim I have come down. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach answered and said to them, Do not grumble among yourselves. 
No one is able to come to me unless HaAv Who sent me should draw him, and I will raise him up on the Yom HaAcharon. 
It has been written in the Nevi'im, V'CHOL they LIMUDI HASHEM (They shall all be taught of G-d). Everyone having heard from HaAv and having learned comes to me. 
Not that anyone has seen HaAv except the one being sent from Hashem; this one has seen HaAv. 
Omein, omein, I say to you, the one having emunah has Chayyei Olam. 
Ani Hu the lechem haChayyim. 
Your Avot ate in the wilderness the manna and died. 
This is the lechem coming down out of Shomayim, so that anyone may eat of it and not die. 
Ani hu the lechem haChai (the living bread) having come down out of Shomayim. If anyone eats of this lechem he will live l'olam v'ed. And, indeed, the lechem which I will give on behalf of the Chayyim (life) of HaOlam is the basar of me. 
Therefore, those of Yehudah were arguing with one another, saying, How is this man able to give us the basar of him to eat? 
Therefore, he said to them, Omein, omein, I say to you, unless you eat the basar of the Bar Enosh and drink his dahm, you do not have Chayyim (Life) in yourselves. 
The one feeding on my basar and drinking dahmi has Chayyei Olam and I will raise him up on the Yom HaAcharon. 
For my basar is okhel emes (true food) and dahmi is shikuy emes (true drink). 
The one feeding on my basar and drinking dahmi abides in, dwells in me and I in him. 
As HaAv HaChai sent me and I live because of HaAv, so also whoever is feeding on me even that one will live because of me. 
This is the lechem out of Shomayim having come down, not as the Avot ate and died; the one feeding on this lechem will live l'olam v'ed. 
These things he said in a shul while teaching in K'far-Nachum. 
Therefore, many of Moshiachʼs talmidim, having heard, said, Hard is this dvar torah. Who is able to hear it? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, having da'as in himself that his talmidim are grumbling about this, said to them, Does this cause a michshol for you? 
What if you behold the Bar Enosh ascending where he was Bereshis? 
The Ruach Hakodesh is that which is making alive, the basar does not profit anything. The devarim which I have spoken to you are as Ruach and they are as Chayyim (Life). 
But there are of you some who do not have emunah. For from Bereshis, he had da'as of whom are the ones not having emunah and who is the one betraying him. 
And he was saying, Because of this, I have told you that no one is able to come to me unless it has been bashert to him from HaAv. 
From this time, many of his talmidim fell away and no longer followed him as talmidim. 
Therefore, he said to the Sheneym Asar, Surely you do not want to depart also? 
In reply, Shim'on Kefa said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Adoni, to whom will we go? You have the divrei haChayyei Olam. 
And we have bitachon and have trusted with emunah and we have da'as that you are HaKadosh of Hashem(the Holy One of G-d). 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Did I not choose you Sheneym Asar (Twelve)? And is one of you not a Satan? 
Now he was speaking of Yehudah Ben Shim'on from K'riot, for, though he was one of the Sheneym Asar, this one was about to betray Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
