YECHEZKEL.
Chapter 47.
Afterward he brought me again unto the Petach HaBeis; and, hinei, mayim issued out from under the threshold of the Beis eastward; for the forefront of the Beis stood toward the east, and the mayim came down from under from the right side of the Beis, at the south side of the Mizbe'ach. 
Then he brought me out of derech Sha'ar Tzafonah, and led me about the derech outside unto the outer Sha'ar by the derech that looketh eastward; and, hinei, there flowed out mayim on the right side. 
And when the ish that had the measuring line in his yad went forth eastward, he measured a thousand cubits, and he brought me through the mayim; the mayim were to the ankles. 
Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through the mayim; the mayim were to the knees. Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through; the mayim were to the loins. 
Afterward he measured a thousand; and it was a nachal (stream) that I could not cross over; for the mayim were risen, mayim to swim in, a nachal that could not be crossed over. 
And he said unto me, Ben Adam, hast thou seen this? Then he brought me, and caused me to return to the bank of the nachal. 
Now when I had returned, hinei, at the bank of the nachal were etz rav me'od (very many trees) on the one side and on the other. 
Then said he unto me, These mayim issue out toward the east country, and go down into the Aravah, and go into the Sea; which being brought forth into the Sea, the mayim shall be healed. 
And it shall come to pass, that every nefesh chayyah, which moveth, whithersoever the nachalim shall come, shall live; and there shall be a very great multitude of dag (fish), because these mayim shall come there; for they shall be healed; and every thing shall live whither the nachal cometh. 
And it shall come to pass, that the fishermen shall stand upon it from Ein-Gedi even unto Ein Eglayim; they shall be a place to spread forth nets; their dag (fish) shall be according to their kinds, as the dag (fish) of the Yam HaGadol, exceeding many. 
But the miry places thereof and the marshes thereof shall not be healed; they shall be given to melach. 
And by the nachal upon the bank thereof, on this side and on that side, shall grow kol etz ma'achal, whose aleh (leaf) shall not fade, neither shall the p'ri thereof fail; it shall yield fresh fruit every month, because the mayim for them flowed out of the Mikdash; and the p'ri thereof shall be for food, and the aleh (leaf) thereof for terufah (healing). 
Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: This shall be the boundary, whereby ye shall inherit HaAretz according to the Shnei Asar Shivtei Yisroel: Yosef shall have two portions. 
And ye shall inherit it, one as well as another; concerning the which I lifted up Mine Yad to give it unto your Avot; and HaAretz HaZot shall fall unto you for nachalah. 
And this shall be the boundary of HaAretz toward the north side, from the Yam HaGadol, the derech Chetlon, as men go to Tzedad; 
Chamat, Berotah, Sivrayim, which is between the boundary of Damascus and the boundary of Chamat; Chamat Chatzer Hattikhon, which is by the boundary of Chavran. 
And the boundary from the Yam shall be Khatzar Einon, the boundary of Damascus, and the north northward, and the boundary of Chamat. And this is the north 
And the east side ye shall measure from Chavran, and from Damascus, and from Gil'ad, and from Eretz Yisroel by Yarden, from the boundary unto the eastern sea. And this is the east side. 
And the south side southward, from Tamar even to the waters of Merivot in Kadesh, the nachalah to the Yam HaGadol. And this is the south side southward. 
The west side also shall be the Yam HaGadol from the boundary, until opposite the approach to Chamat. This is the west side. 
So shall ye divide HaAretz Hazot unto you according to the Shivtei Yisroel. 
And it shall come to pass, that ye shall divide it by lot for a nachalah unto you, and to the gerim that sojourn among you, which shall father banim among you; and they shall be unto you as native-born among the Bnei Yisroel; they shall have nachalah with you among the Shivtei Yisroel. 
And it shall come to pass, that in what shevet (tribe) the ger sojourneth, there shall ye give him his nachalah, saith Adonoi Hashem. Now these are the shmot of the Shevatim (Tribes). 
