TEHILLIM.
Chapter 104.
Barachi (bless)Hashem, O my nefesh. Hashem Elohai, Thou art gadol me'od; Thou art clothed with hod (honor) and hadar (majesty). 
Who coverest Thyself with ohr (light) as with a garment; Who stretchest out Shomayim like a tent (curtain); 
Who layeth the beams of His aliyyot (upper rooms) on the mayim; Who maketh the clouds His merkavah; Who walketh upon the wings of the ruach (wind); 
Who maketh ruchot (spirits, winds) His malachim; His mesharetim (ministers), flaming eish. 
Who laid the mekhonim (foundations) of ha'aretz, that it should not move out of place olam va'ed. 
Thou coveredst it with the tehom (deep) as with a garment; the mayim stood above the harim (mountains). 
At Thy ga'arah (rebuke) they fled; at the voice of Thy thunder they hasted away. 
They go up by the harim (mountains); they go down by the beka'ot (valleys) unto the makom (place) which Thou hast assigned for them. 
Thou hast set a boundary that they may not pass over; that they return not to cover ha'aretz. 
He sendeth the ma'ayanim (springs) into the ravines, which run among the harim. 
They give drink to every beast of the sadeh; the pera'im (donkeys) quench their thirst. 
By them shall the oph HaShomayim have their habitation, which sing among the branches. 
He watereth the harim from His aliyyot (upper rooms); ha'aretz is satisfied with the p'ri (fruit) of Thy ma'asim. 
He causeth the khatzir (grass) to grow for the behemah, and esev for the avodas ha'adam; that he may bring forth lechem out of ha'aretz; 
And yayin that maketh glad levav enosh, and shemen to make panim (faces) to shine, and lechem which strengtheneth levav enosh. 
The trees of Hashem are full of sap, the arazim (cedars) of Levanon, which He hath planted; 
Where the tzipporim (birds) make their nests; as for the khasidah (stork), the beroshim (cypresses) are her bais. 
The high hills are a makhseh (refuge, shelter) for the wild goats; and the rocks for the gophers. 
He appointed the yarei'ach for mo'adim; the shemesh knoweth the place of its going down. 
Thou makest choshech, and it is lailah; wherein all the beasts of the ya'ar (forest) do creep forth. 
The young lions roar after their teref (prey), and seek their okhel from G-d. 
The shemesh ariseth, they retreat, and lay themselves down in their me'onot (dwelling places, dens, homes). 
Adam goeth forth unto his work and to his avodah (labor, service) until erev. 
Hashem, how manifold are Thy ma'asim! In chochmah (wisdom) hast Thou made them all; ha'aretz is full of Thy riches. 
So is this gadol (great) and rekhav (wide, spacious) yam (sea), wherein are remes (creeping things), innumerable swarming chayyot (creatures), ketanot and gedolot. 
There go the oniyyot (ships); there is that Leviathan, whom Thou hast made lesakhek (to play, to sport, to frolic) therein. 
These wait all upon Thee; that Thou mayest give them their ochel (food) in due season. 
That Thou givest them they gather; Thou openest Thine yad, they are satisfied with tov. 
Thou hidest Thy face, they are troubled; Thou takest away their ruach, they expire, and return to their aphar. 
Thou sendest forth Thy Ruach, they are created; and Thou renewest the face of adamah (earth). 
The Kavod Hashem shall endure l'olam; Hashem shall rejoice in His ma'asim (works). 
He looketh on ha'aretz, and it trembleth; He toucheth the harim, and they smoke. 
I will sing unto Hashem as long as I live; I will sing praise to Elohai while I have my being. 
May my si'akh (musing, meditation) be acceptable to Him; I will have simchah in Hashem. 
Let the chatta'im (sinners) be consumed from ha'aretz, and let the resha'im (wicked) be no more. Baruch Hashem, O my nefesh. Praise Hashem! 
