ZECHARYAH.
Chapter 4.
And the malach that spoke with me returned, and awakened me, like a man that is wakened out of his sleep. 
And he said unto me, What seest thou? And I said, I have looked, and hinei a menorat zahav, solid gold, with an oil vessel upon the top of it, and shivah nerot (lamps) thereon, and shivah tubes to the shivah nerot (lamps), which are upon the top thereof: 
And two zeytim (olive trees) by it, one upon the right side of the oil vessel, and the other upon the left side thereof. 
So I answered and spoke to the malach that spoke with me, saying, What are these, adoni? 
Then the malach that spoke with me answered and said unto me, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, Lo (no), adoni. 
Then he answered and spoke unto me, saying, This is the Devar Hashem unto Zerubavel, saying: Not by might, nor by ko'ach (power), but by My Ruach, saith Hashem Tzva'os. 
Who art thou, O har hagadol (great mountain), before Zerubavel? Thou shalt become a plain; and he shall bring forth the even haroshah (cornerstone) thereof with shoutings, crying, Chen, chen (Grace, grace) unto it. 
Moreover the Devar Hashem came unto me, saying: 
The hands of Zerubavel have laid the Yesod (foundation) of this Beis; his hands shall also finish it; then thou shalt know that Hashem Tzva'os hath sent me unto you. 
For who hath despised the Yom Ketannot (day of small things)? For they shall have simcha, and shall see the plumb line in the hand of Zerubavel with these shivah; they are the eyes of Hashem, which run to and fro throughout kol ha'aretz. 
Then I replied by asking him, What are these two olive trees upon the right side of the menorah and upon the left side thereof? 
And I asked again, and said unto him, What are these two branches of the zeytim which through the two golden sprouts pour the gold-colored oil out of themselves? 
And he answered me and said, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, Lo (no), adoni. 
Then said he, These are the two bnei hayitzhar (sons of oil), that stand by Adon Kol Ha'aretz. 
