VAYIKRA.
Chapter 7.
Likewise this is the Torat HaAsham: it is kodesh kodashim. 
In the place where they slaughter (shachat) the olah (burnt offering) shall they slaughter the asham (trespass offering); and the dahm thereof shall he sprinkle around upon the Mizbe'ach. 
And he shall offer of it all the chelev thereof; the tail, and the chelev that covereth the innards, 
And the two kidneys, and the chelev that is on them, which is on the flanks, and the diaphragm that is above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he remove; 
And the kohen shall burn them upon the Mizbe'ach for an offering made by eish unto Hashem; it is an asham (trespass offering). 
Every zachar among the kohanim shall eat thereof; it shall be eaten in the makom kadosh; it is kodesh kodashim. 
As the chattat (sin offering) is, so is the asham (trespass offering); there is one torah for them both; the kohen that maketh kapporah therewith shall have it. 
And the kohen that offereth any manʼs olah the kohen shall have for himself the hide of the olah which he hath offered. 
And all the minchah that is baked in the oven, and all that is prepared in the deep pan, and in the shallow pan, shall be the kohenʼs that offereth it. 
And every minchah, mixed with shemen, or dry, shall all the Bnei Aharon have, each equal with achiv (his brother). 
And this is the Torat Zevach HaShelamim, which he shall offer unto Hashem. 
If he offer it for a todah, then he shall offer with the zevach hatodah challos matzot mixed with shemen, and matzot wafers anointed with shemen, and challos mixed with scalded fine flour mixed with shemen. 
Besides the challos, he shall offer for his korban lechem chametz with the zevach todah of his shelamim. 
And of it he shall offer one cake from each korban for a terumah (contribution) unto Hashem, and it shall be the kohenʼs that sprinkleth the dahm of the shelamim (peace offerings). 
And the basar of the zevach todat shelamim of him shall be eaten the same day that it is offered; he shall not leave any of it until the boker. 
But if the zevach of his korban be a neder, or a nedavah, it shall be eaten the same day that he offereth his zevach; and on the following day also the remainder of it shall be eaten; 
But the remainder of the basar of the zevach on the yom hashelishi shall be burned with eish. 
And if any of the basar of the zevach of his shelamim be eaten at all on the yom hashelishi, it shall not be accepted, neither shall it be imputed (credited) unto him that offereth it; it shall be piggul, and the nefesh that eateth of it shall have his avon to bear. 
And the basar that toucheth any thing tamei shall not be eaten; it shall be burned with eish; and as for the basar, all that be tahor shall eat thereof. 
But the nefesh that eateth of the basar of the zevach hashelamim, that pertain unto Hashem, having his tumah upon him, even that nefesh shall be cut off from his people. 
Moreover the nefesh that shall touch any thing tamei, as the tumat adam (uncleanness of man, human contamination), or any behemah temeiah (contaminated animal carcass)  or sheketz tamei (unclean abomination), and eat of the basar of the zevach hashelamim which pertain unto Hashem, even that nefesh shall be cut off from his people. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, saying, Ye shall eat no manner of chelev, of ox, or of sheep, or of goat. 
And the chelev of the nevelah, the beast that dieth of itself, and the chelev of the terefah, may be used in any other use; but ye shall in no wise eat of it. 
For whosoever eateth the chelev of the behemah, of which men offer an offering made by eish unto Hashem, even the nefesh that eateth it shall be cut off from his people. 
Moreover ye shall eat no manner of dahm, whether it be of fowl or of beast, in any of your moshevot (dwellings). 
Whatsoever nefesh it be that eateth any manner of dahm, even that nefesh shall be cut off from his people. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, saying, He that offereth the zevach shelamim of him unto Hashem shall bring his korban unto Hashem of the zevach shelamim of him. 
His own hands shall bring the offerings of Hashem made by eish, the chelev with the breast, it shall he bring, that the breast may be waved for a tenufah before Hashem. 
And the kohen shall burn the chelev upon the Mizbe'ach; but the breast shall belong to Aharon and his Banim. 
And the right thigh shall ye give unto the kohen for a terumah (raised up offering) of the zevakhim of your shelamim. 
He among the Bnei Aharon, that offereth the dahm hashelamim and the chelev (fat), shall have the right thigh for his part. 
For the breast of the waving (tenufah) and the thigh of the terumah (raising) I have taken of the Bnei Yisroel from the zevakhim of their shelemim, and have given them unto Aharon the kohen and unto his Banim by a chok olam from among the Bnei Yisroel. 
This is the anointed portion of Aharon, and the anointed portion of his Banim, out of the offerings of Hashem made by eish, in the day when he presented them to minister unto Hashem in the kohenʼs office; 
Which Hashem commanded to be given them of the Bnei Yisroel, in the day that He anointed them, by a chukkat olam throughout their dorot. 
This is the torah of the olah (burnt offering), of the minchah (grain offering), and of the chattat (sin offering), and of the asham (trespass offering), and of the ordination offerings, and of the zevach hashelamim (sacrifice of the peace offerings); 
Which Hashem commanded Moshe on Mt. Sinai, in the day that He commanded the Bnei Yisroel to offer their korbanot unto Hashem, in the Sinai Desert. 
