EZRA.
Chapter 5.
Then the nevi'im, Chaggai HaNavi, and Zecharyah ben Iddo, prophesied unto the Yehudim that were in Yehudah and Yerushalayim in the shem Elohei Yisroel, Who was in authority over them. 
Then rose up Zerubavel ben She'alti'el, and Yeshua ben Yotzadak, and began to build the Beis Elohim which is at Yerushalayim; and with them were the nevi'im of Elohim helping them. 
At the same time came to them Tatnai, governor of the province Beyond-the-River, and Shetar-Boznai and their companions, and said thus unto them, Who hath authorized you to build this Beis, and to finish this structure? 
Then said we unto them according to this manner, What are the shmot of the men that are constructing this building? 
But the Ayn Eloheihem (Eye of their G-d) was upon the leaders of the Yehudim, that they could not cause them to cease, until the matter came to Daryavesh (Darius); and then answer was returned by letter concerning this matter. 
The copy of the letter that Tatnai, governor of the province Beyond-the-River, and Shetar-Boznai and his companions the envoys which were in the province Beyond-the-River, sent unto Daryavesh (Darius) the Melech; 
They sent a letter unto him, wherein was written thus: Unto Daryavesh HaMelech, all Shalom. 
Be it known unto the Melech, that we went into the province of Yehudah, to the Beis of the great Elohim, which is being built with great stones, and timber is laid in the walls, and this work goeth fast on, and prospereth in their hands. 
Then asked we those leaders, and said unto them thus, Who commanded you to build this Beis, and to restore this structure? 
We asked their shmot also, to inform thee, that we might write down the shmot of the men that were their heads for thy information. 
And thus they returned us answer, saying, We are the avadim of the Elohei Shomayim va'Aretz, and build the Beis that was built these many years ago, which a great Melech Yisroel built and set up. 
But because Avoteinu had provoked the Elohei Shomayim unto them into the hand of Nevukhadnetzar Melech Bavel, the Kasdai (Chaldean), who destroyed this Beis, and carried the people away into the Golus of Bavel (Babylon). 
But in the first year of Koresh (Cyrus) Melech Bavel the same Melech Koresh made a decree to build this Beis Elohim. 
And the vessels also of zahav and kesef of the Beis Elohim, which Nevukhadnetzar took out of the Heikhal that was in Yerushalayim, and brought into the Heikhal of Babylon, those did Koresh the Melech take out of the Heikhal of Babylon, and they were delivered unto one, whose shem was Sheshbatzar, whom he had made governor; 
And said unto him, Take these vessels, go, deposit them into the Heikhal that is in Yerushalayim, and let the Beis Elohim be built in its place. 
Then came the same Sheshbatzar, and laid the foundation of the Beis Elohim which is in Yerushalayim; and since that time even until now hath it been under construction, and yet it is not finished. 
Now therefore, if it seem good to the Melech, let there be search made in the bais of royal archives, which is there at Babylon, whether it be so, that a decree was made of Koresh (Cyrus) the Melech to build this Beis Elohim at Yerushalayim, and let the Melech send his pleasure to us concerning this matter. 
