DANIEL.
Chapter 12.
And at that time shall Micha'el stand, the Sar HaGadol who standeth over the banim of thy people, and there shall be an et tzarah (time of tribulation), such as has not been from the existence of a nation to that time; and in that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the Sefer. 
And rabbim of them that sleep in the admat aphar (dust of the ground) shall awake, some to Chayyei Olam (Everlasting Life), and some to reproaches (shames) and Dera'on Olam (Everlasting Contempt, Abhorrence, Aversion, i.e.), Everlasting Gehinnom. 
And they that are wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to tzedakah (righteousness) as the kokhavim (stars) leolam v'ed (forever and ever). 
But thou, O Daniel, shut up the devarim (words), and seal the sefer, until the Et Ketz (Time of the End): rabbim shall run to and fro, that da'as (knowledge) may be increased. 
Then I Daniel looked, and, hinei, two others were standing, the one on this side of the bank of the river, and the other on that side of the bank of the river. 
And one said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, How long shall it be to the Ketz of these wonders? 
And I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, when he held up his right hand and his left hand unto Shomayim, and swore, By the One who liveth haolam (forever), it shall be for a time, times, and a half a time; and when there is an end of breaking in pieces the yad Am Kodesh (power of the Holy People), all these things shall come to an end. 
And I heard, but I understood not. Then said I, Adoni, what shall be the end of these things? 
And he said, Go thy way, Daniel, for the devarim are closed up and sealed till the Et Ketz (Time of the End). 
Many shall be purified, and made white, and refined; but the resha'im (wicked) shall do wickedly; and none of the resha'im shall understand; but the wise shall understand. 
And from the time that HaTamid (the Daily Sacrifice) shall be taken away, and the Shikkutz Shomem (Abomination Causing Desolation) set up, there shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety yamim. 
Ashrei (blessed) is he who waiteth, and attains to the thousand three hundred and five and thirty yamim. 
But thou, go till HaKetz; for thou shalt rest, and shall arise to thy allotted inheritance at the Ketz Hayamim (End of Days).
