DANIEL.
Chapter 3.
Nevukhadnetzar the king made a tzelem of gold, whose height was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof six cubits; he set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon. 
Then Nevukhadnetzar the king sent to gather together the satraps, the prefects, and the governors, the judges, the treasurers, the counselors, the magistrates, and all the rulers of the provinces, to come to the dedication of the tzelem which Nevukhadnetzar the king had set up. 
Then the satraps, the prefects, and governors, the judges, the treasurers, the counselors, the magistrates, and all the rulers of the provinces, were gathered together unto the dedication of the tzelem that Nevukhadnetzar the king had set up; and they stood before the tzelem that Nevukhadnetzar had set up. 
Then a karoz (herald) cried aloud, To you it is commanded, O people, nations, and languages, 
That at what time ye hear the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre, psaltery, pipes, and all kinds of music, ye fall down and worship the golden tzelem that Nevukhadnetzar the king hath set up; 
And whoso falleth not down and worshipeth shall the same hour be cast into the midst of a burning fiery attun (furnace). 
Therefore at that time, when all the people heard the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre, psaltery, and all kinds of music, all the people, the nations, and the languages, fell down and worshiped the golden tzelem that Nevukhadnetzar the king had set up. 
Wherefore at that time certain Kasdim (Chaldeans) came near, and accused the Yehudim. 
They spoke and said to the king Nevukhadnetzar, O king, live for ever. 
Thou, O king, hast made a decree, that every man that shall hear the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre, psaltery, and pipes, and all kinds of music, shall fall down and worship the golden tzelem; 
And whoso falleth not down and worshipeth, that he should be cast into the midst of a burning fiery attun (furnace). 
There are certain Yehudim whom thou hast set over the affairs of the province of Babylon, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego; these men, O king, have disregarded thee; they serve not thy g-ds, nor worship the golden tzelem which thou hast set up. 
Then Nevukhadnetzar in his rage and fury commanded to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Then they brought these men before the king. 
Nevukhadnetzar spoke and said unto them, Is it true, O Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, do ye not serve my g-ds, nor worship the golden tzelem which I have set up? 
Now if ye be ready that at what time ye hear the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre, psaltery, and pipes, and all kinds of music, ye fall down and worship the tzelem which I have made, well; but if ye worship not, ye shall be cast the same hour into the midst of a burning fiery attun; and who is that G-d that shall deliver you out of my hands? 
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, answered and said to the king, O Nevukhadnetzar, we are not needful to answer thee in this matter. 
If it be so, Eloheinu whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and He will deliver us out of thine hand, O king. 
But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not be the ones serving as deity thy g-ds, nor worship the golden tzelem which thou hast set up. 
Then was Nevukhadnetzar full of fury, and the expression on his visage was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego; therefore he spoke, and commanded that they should heat the attun seven times hotter than usual. 
And he commanded certain gibborim (mighty men) of valor that were in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the burning fiery attun. 
Then these anashim (men) were bound in their mantles, their tunics, and their turbans, and their other garments, and were cast into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. 
Therefore because the kingʼs commandment was severe, and the furnace exceedingly hot, the flames of the eish (fire) violently killed those men that took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. 
And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell down bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. 
Then Nevukhadnetzar the king was astonished, and rose up in haste, and spoke, and said unto his counselors, Did not we cast shloshah anashim (three men) bound into the midst of the eish (fire)? They answered and said unto the king, True, O king. 
He answered and said, Lo, I see anashim arba'ah (four men) free (not bound, loose), walking in the midst of the eish (fire), and they have no hurt; and the form of the fourth is like the Bar Elohin (Ben Elohim, Hebrew). 
Then Nevukhadnetzar came near to the door of the burning fiery furnace, and spoke, and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, ye servants of El Elyon (G-d Most High), come forth, and come hither. Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, came forth of the midst of the eish (fire). 
And the satraps, governors, and administrators, and the kingʼs counselors, being gathered together, saw these men, upon whose bodies the eish (fire) had no power, nor was a hair of their head singed, neither were their garments affected, nor the smell of eish (fire) had passed on them. 
Then Nevukhadnetzar spoke, and said, Baruch Elohim shel Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, Who hath sent His malach, and delivered His servants that trusted in Him, and frustrated the kingʼs word, and yielded their bodies, that they might not serve, nor worship any g-d, except their own G-d. 
Therefore I make a decree, that every people, nation, and language, which speak any thing amiss against the G-d of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a pile of rubble, because there is no other g-d that can deliver like this. 
Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, in the province of Babylon. 
Nevukhadnetzar the king, unto all people, nations and languages, that dwell in all the earth; Shalom aleichem l'machbir (Peace be multiplied unto you). 
I thought it good to show the otot (signs) and mofetim (wonders) that El Elyon hath wrought toward me. 
How great are His otot (signs)! And how mighty are His mofetim (wonders)! His kingdom is a malchut olam (everlasting kingdom), and His dominion is from dor v'dor (generation to generation). 
