MELACHIM ALEF.
Chapter 9.
And it came to pass, when Sh'lomo had completed the building of the Beis Hashem, and the Bais HaMelech, and all Sh'lomoʼs desire which he was pleased to do, 
That Hashem appeared to Sh'lomo the second time, as He had appeared unto him at Giv'on. 
And Hashem said unto him, I have heard thy tefillah and thy techinnah, that thou hast made before Me; I have set apart as kodesh this Beis, which thou hast built, to put Shemi there ad olam; and Mine eyes and Mine lev shall be there kol hayamim. 
And if thou wilt walk before Me, just as Dovid Avicha walked, in tohm (integrity, guilelessness) of lev, and in yashar, to do according to all that I have commanded thee, and will be shomer over My chukkot and My mishpatim; 
Then I will establish the kisse (throne) of thy kingdom over Yisroel l'olam, as I promised to Dovid Avicha, saying, There shall not yikaret (be cut off, fail) thee an ish upon the Kisse Yisroel. 
But if ye shall at all turn from following Me, ye or your banim, and will not be shomer over My mitzvot and My chukkot which I have set before you, but go and serve elohim acherim, and hishtachaveh (worship) them; 
Then will I cut off Yisroel out of the adamah which I have given them; and this Beis, which I have set apart as kodesh for Shemi, will I cast out of My sight; and Yisroel shall be a mashal (proverb) and a sheninah (taunt, byword) among kol ha'ammim; 
And at this Beis, which is elyon, every one that passeth by it shall be appalled, and shall hiss; and they shall say, Why hath Hashem done thus unto HaAretz Hazot, and to this Beis? 
And they shall answer, Because they forsook Hashem Eloheichem who brought forth their avot out of Eretz Mitzrayim, and have taken hold upon elohim acherim, and have worshiped them, and served them; therefore hath Hashem brought upon them all this ra'ah. 
And it came to pass at the end of esrim shanim, when Sh'lomo had built the two batim, the Beis Hashem, and the Bais HaMelech, 
(Now Chiram Melech Tzor had furnished Sh'lomo with cedar trees and cypress trees, and with zahav, according to all his desire), that then HaMelech Sh'lomo gave Chiram esrim ir (twenty towns) in Eretz HaGalil. 
And Chiram came out from Tzor (Tyre) to see the towns which Sh'lomo had given him; and they pleased him not. 
And he said, What towns are these which thou hast given me, achi (my brother)? And he called them Eretz Kavul unto this day. 
And Chiram sent to HaMelech 120 talents of zahav. 
And this is the account of the mas (forced labor) which HaMelech Sh'lomo conscripted; to build the Beis Hashem, and his own Bais, and Millo, and the Chomat Yerushalayim, and Chatzor, and Megiddo, and Gezer. 
For Pharaoh Melech Mitzrayim had gone up, and captured Gezer, and burned it with eish, and slain the Kena'ani that dwelt in the ir, and given it for shilluchim (going-away presents) unto his bat eshet Sh'lomo. 
And Sh'lomo rebuilt Gezer, and Lower Beit-Choron, 
And Ba'alat, and Tadmor in the midbar, in the land, 
And all the storage cities that Sh'lomo had, and cities for his merkavot, and cities for his parashim (calvary), and that which Sh'lomo desired to build in Yerushalayim, and in Levanon, and in all the eretz of his memshalet. 
And kol haAm that were left of HaEmori (the Amorites), HaChitti (Hittites), HaPerizzi (Perizzites), HaChivi (Hivites), and Yevusi (Jebusites), which were not of the Bnei Yisroel, 
Their banim that were left after them in HaAretz, whom the Bnei Yisroel also were not able utterly to destroy, upon those did Sh'lomo conscript mas of oved (bondservice) unto this day. 
But of the Bnei Yisroel did Sh'lomo make no eved; but they were anshei hamilchamah, and his avadim, and his sarim, and his shalishim (captains), and commanders of his merkavot, and his parashim. 
These were the chief of the officials that were over the melachah (work) of Sh'lomo five hundred and fifty, harodim (the ones supervising) the people that wrought in the melachah. 
But Bat Pharaoh came up out of the Ir Dovid unto her Bais (Palace) which Sh'lomo had built for her; then did he build the Millo. 
And three times in shanah did Sh'lomo offer olot and shelamim upon the Mizbe'ach which he built unto Hashem and he burned ketoret upon the Mizbe'ach that was before Hashem. So he completed the Beis. 
And HaMelech Sh'lomo built a fleet of oniyyot in Etzyon-Gever, which is near Eilot, on the shore of the Yam Suf, in Eretz Edom. 
And Chiram sent to the fleet of oniyyot his avadim, anshei oniyyot (shipmen, sailors) that had da'as hayam (knowledge of the sea), with the avadim of Sh'lomo. 
And they came to Ophir, and brought back from there zahav, four hundred and twenty talents, and brought it to HaMelech Sh'lomo. 
