YECHEZKEL.
Chapter 7.
Moreover the Devar Hashem came unto me, saying, 
Also, thou ben adam, thus saith Adonoi Hashem unto Eretz Yisroel: Ketz (End), the End is come upon the four corners of ha'aretz. 
Now is the Ketz (End, Doom) come upon thee, and I will send Mine anger upon thee, and will judge thee according to thy drakhim, and will repay thee for all thine to'avot (abominations). 
And Mine eye shall not pity thee, neither will I spare; but I will repay thy drakhim upon thee, and thine to'avot shall be in the midst of thee; and ye shall know that I am Hashem. 
Thus saith Adonoi Hashem; A ra'ah, a singular ra'ah, hinei, has come. 
Ketz is come, the ketz is come; it is ripe for thee; hinei, it is come. 
The Tzefirah (the Web) is come upon thee, O thou that dwellest in ha'aretz; the time is come, the Yom Mehumah (Day of Panic) is near, and not of rejoicing in the harim. 
Now will I shortly pour out My fury upon thee, and spend Mine anger upon thee; and I will judge thee according to thy drakhim, and will repay thee for all thine to'avot. 
And Mine eye shall not pity, neither will I spare; I will repay thee according to thy drakhim and thine to'avot that are in the midst of thee; and ye shall know that I am Hashem that striketh. 
Hinei, the Yom, hinei, it is come; The Tzefirah (Web) is gone forth; the mateh (rod) hath blossomed, zadon (pride) hath budded. 
Chamas is risen up into mateh resha (a rod of wickedness); none of them shall remain, nor of their tumult, nor of any of theirʼs; none of their preeminence. 
The time is come, the day draweth near; let not the koneh (buyer) rejoice, nor the mokher (seller) mourn; for charon (wrath) is upon all the multitude thereof. 
For the mokher (seller) shall not return to that which is sold, as long as his life is alive; for the chazon (vision) concerns the whole multitude thereof, which shall not be reversed; neither shall any strengthen himself in the avon of his life. 
They have blown the trumpet, even to make all ready; but none goeth to the milchamah; for My charon (wrath) is upon all the multitude thereof. 
The cherev is outside, and the dever and the ra'av (famine) inside; he that is in the sadeh shall die with the cherev; and he that is in the Ir, ra'av (famine) and dever shall devour him. 
But they that survive of them shall escape, and shall be on the harim like doves of the ge'ayot (valleys), all of them moaning, every one for his avon. 
All hands shall go limp, and all birkayim (knees) shall be weak as mayim. 
They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth, and terror shall cover them; and bushah (shame) shall be upon all faces, and shaved scalps upon all their heads. 
They shall cast their kesef in the streets, and their zahav shall be like niddah; their kesef and their zahav shall not be able to save them in the Yom Evrat Hashem(Day of the Wrath of Hashem); they shall not satisfy their nefashot, neither fill their stomachs; for it has become the stumbling block of their avon. 
As for the beauty of his jewelry, he set it in ga'on (pride); but they made the tzelem of their to'avot and of their shikkutzim therein; therefore I will make it like niddah to them. 
And I will give it into the hands of the zarim (strangers) for plunder, and to the resha'im of ha'aretz for loot; and they shall defile it. 
My face will I turn also from them, and they shall desecrate My treasure; for the robbers shall enter into it, and defile it. 
Make a chain; for ha'aretz is full of mishpat damim, and the ir is full of chamas. 
Therefore I will bring the worst of the Goyim, and they shall possess their batim (houses); I will also make the ga'on (pride) of the mighty to cease; and their mikdashim (holy places) shall be defiled. 
Terror cometh; and they shall seek shalom, and there shall be none. 
Disaster shall come upon disaster, and rumor shall be upon rumor; then shall they seek a chazon (vision) from the navi; but the torah shall perish from the kohen, and etzah from the zekenim (elders). 
HaMelech shall mourn, and the nasi shall be clothed with despair, and the hands of the am ha'aretz shall fearfully tremble; I will do unto them according to their derech, and according to their mishpatim will I judge them; and they shall know that I am Hashem. 
