DIVREY HAYAMIM ALEF.
Chapter 18.
Now after this it came to pass, that Dovid struck the Pelishtim, and subdued them, and took Gat and her villages out of the yad of the Pelishtim. 
And he struck Moav, and Moav became Dovidʼs avadim, and brought minchah. 
And Dovid struck Hadadezer Melech Tzovah unto Chamat, as he went to establish his dominion over the river Euphrates. 
And Dovid captured from him elef chariots, and 7,000 parashim, and 20,000 foot soldiers. Dovid also hamstrung all the chariot horses, but reserved of them 100 chariot horses. 
And when Aram Darmesek came to help Hadadezer Melech Tzovah, Dovid slaughtered of the Syrians 22,000 ish. 
Then Dovid put garrisons in Aram Darmesek; and the Syrians became Dovidʼs avadim (subjects), bearing minchah (tribute). Thus Hashem saved Dovid wherever he went. 
And Dovid took the shields of zahav that were on avadim of Hadadezer, and brought them to Yerushalayim. 
Likewise from Tivchat, and from Kun, towns of Hadadezer, Dovid took very much nechoshet, wherewith Sh'lomo made the Yam HaNechoshet, and the Ammudim, and the kelei hanechoshet. 
Now when To'u Melech Chamat heard how Dovid had struck down the whole army of Hadadezer Melech Tzovah, 
He sent Hadoram bno to HaMelech Dovid, to give him a shalom greeting, and to congratulate him, because he had fought against Hadadezer, and struck him down (for Hadadezer was an ish milchamah often against To'u); and he sent all manner kelim zahav, kesef and nechoshet. 
Them also Dovid HaMelech dedicated as kodesh unto Hashem, with the kesef and the zahav that he brought from all these Goyim; from Edom, and from Moav, and from the Bnei Ammon, and from the Pelishtim, and from Amalek. 
Moreover Avishai Ben Tzeruyah slaughtered of Edom in the Gey HaMelach eighteen elef. 
And he put garrisons in Edom, and kol Edom became Dovidʼs avadim. Thus Hashem saved Dovid wherever he went. 
So Dovid reigned over kol Yisroel, and executed mishpat and tzedakah among all his people. 
And Yoav Ben Tzeruyah was over the tzava (army), and Yehoshaphat Ben Achilud was mazkir (recorder, secretary). 
And Tzadok Ben Achituv, and Avimelech Ben Evyatar (Abiathar), were the Kohanim, and Shavsha was sofer (scribe), 
And Benayahu Ben Yehoyada was over the Kereti and the Peleti; and the Bnei Dovid were the rishonim (first ones) at the side of HaMelech. 
