TEHILLIM.
Chapter 51.
(For the one directing. Mizmor Dovid. 
When Natan HaNavi confronted him after he went into Bat-Sheva) 
Have mercy upon me, O Elohim, according to Thy chesed; according unto the multitude of Thy rachamim blot out my peysha'im (transgressions, rebellions). 
Wash me thoroughly from mine avon (iniquity), and cleanse me from my chattat (sin). 
For I acknowledge my peysha'im (transgressions, rebellions); and my chattat (sin) is ever before me. 
Against Thee, Thee only, have I sinned, and done the rah in Thy sight; that Thou mightest be found just when Thou speakest, and be blameless when Thou judgest. 
Surely, I was brought forth in avon; and in chet did immi conceive me. 
Surely Thou desirest emes in the inward parts; and in the inmost place Thou shalt make me to know chochmah. 
Purge me with ezov (hyssop), and I shall be tahor; wash me, and I shall be whiter than sheleg (snow). 
Make me to hear sasson and simchah; that the atzmot which Thou hast broken may rejoice. 
Hide Thy face from my chatta'im, and blot out all mine avonot. 
Bara in me a lev tahor, O Elohim; and renew a ruach nekhon (steadfast spirit) within me. 
Cast me not away from Thy presence; and take not Thy Ruach Hakodesh from me. 
Restore unto me the sasson of Thy salvation; and uphold me with a ruach nedivah (a willing spirit). 
Then will I teach poshe'im (transgressors) Thy drakhim; and chatta'im (sinners) shall be converted unto Thee. 
Save me from damim (bloodguiltiness), O Elohim, Thou Elohei Teshuati; and my leshon shall sing aloud of Thy tzedakah. 
Adonoi, open Thou my lips; and my mouth shall show forth Thy tehillah (praise). 
For Thou desirest not zevach (sacrifice); else would I give it; Thou delightest not in olah (burnt offering). 
The zivkhei Elohim are a ruach nishbarah (broken spirit); a broken and contrite lev, O Elohim, Thou wilt not despise. 
Do good in Thy good pleasure unto Tziyon; build Thou the chomot Yerushalayim. 
Then shalt Thou be pleased with zivkhei tzedek (true sacrifices, sacrifices of righteousness), with olah (burnt offering) and whole burnt offering; then shall they offer parim (bulls) upon Thine Mizbe'ach. 
