HISGALUS.
Chapter 5.
And I saw on the yamin (right hand) of the One sitting on the Kes (Throne) a sefer (book) having been written inside and on the back, having been sealed with sheva chotamot (seven seals). 
And I saw a strong malach (angel), proclaiming in a kol gadol (loud voice), Who is worthy to open the sefer (book) and break its chotamot (seals)? 
And no one in Shomayim or on ha'aretz or under ha'aretz was being able to open the sefer (book) or to look into it. 
And I was weeping copiously because no one was found worthy to open the sefer (book) or to look into it. 
And one of the Zekenim says to me, Do not weep, hinei, HaAryeh (The Lion) from the Shevet Yehudah (Tribe of Judah), the Shoresh Dovid (Root of Dovid), has won the nitzachon (victory) and he is able to open the sefer (book) and its sheva chotamot (seven seals). 
And I saw between the Kes (Throne) and the Arbah Chayyot (four living beings) and among the Zekenim(Elders) a SEH (Lamb), having stood as having been slain, having sheva karnayim (horns), sheva eynayim (eyes), which are the sheva ruchot (spirits) of Hashem having been sent into kol ha'aretz (all the earth). 
And the SEH (Lamb) came and has taken the sefer out of the yamin (right hand) of the One sitting on the Kes (Throne). 
And when the SEH received the sefer, the Arbah Chayyot (four living beings) and the esrim v'arba'ah Zekenim(twenty-four Elders) fell down before the SEH(Lamb), each one having a nevel (harp) and golden ke'arot (bowls) full of ketoret (incense), which are the tefillos (prayers) of the Kedoshim. 
And they are singing a SHIR CHADASH saying, Worthy art thou to take the sefer (book) and to open the chotamot (seals) of it, because you were slain and with your dahm kapporah you paid the price for the Geulah redemption and purchased ones for Hashem from every mishpochah (family) and lashon (tongue) and am (people) and goy (nation), 
And made them for Eloheinu a Malchut and kohanim, and they will reign on ha'aretz (the earth). 
And I saw and I heard the kol (voice) of many malachim (angels); they numbered myriads of myriads and v'alfei alafim (thousands of thousands), around the Kes (Throne) and the Chayyot (the living beings) and the Zekenim(Elders), 
Saying with a kol gadol, Worthy is the SEH (Lamb), having been slain, to receive the oz (power) and the osher (wealth) and the chochmah (wisdom) and the gevurah (strength) and hod (honor) and kavod (glory) and bracha (blessing). 
And every beriyah (creature) which is in Shomayim and on ha'aretz (the earth) and under ha'aretz and on the yam (sea) and all things in them, I heard saying, To the One sitting on the Kes (Throne) and to the SEH (Lamb), be the bracha (blessing) and the hod (honor) and the hadar (glory) and the memshalah (dominion) ad Olemei Olamim (forever and ever). 
And the Arbah Chayyot were saying, Omein. And the Zekenim(Elders) fell down and worshiped. 
