2 Thessalonians.
Chapter 2.
We ask you, Achim b'Moshiach, concerning the Bias HaMoshiach (the Arrival, Coming of Moshiach) Yehoshua Adoneinu and our being gathered together to him, 
that you not become too hastily disturbed from your spiritual composure nor frightened either by a ruach or by a dibur (saying, utterance) or by an iggeret (letter), as if from us, saying that the YOM HASHEM(Day of the L-rd) has come. 
Let no one in any way lead you astray, because, unless the Merid (Rebellion, Revolt, the Shmad Betrayal Defection of Apostasy, the Azivah Abandonment) Desertion comes rishonah (first), and the Apocalypse of the Ish HaMufkarut (Man of Lawlessness), the Ish HaChatta'ah Ben HaAvaddon (Man of Sin, Son of Destruction Anti-Moshiach) is unveiled… 
I'm referring to the one setting himself against and exalting himself AL KOL EL(above every G-d), above all that is given the appellation “G-d” or object of worship, with the result that in the Beis Hamikdash Heikhal he sits down on the MOSHAV ELOHIM(throne of G-d), proclaiming that he himself is Elohim… 
Do you not recall that when I was still with you I was telling you these things? 
Yet you have da'as of what is holding back and restraining now, so that he may be unveiled and revealed in his own time. 
For the Sod HaMufkarut (Mystery of Lawlessness) is already working; only he who holds back and restrains just now will do so until he is out of the way. 
And then the Ish HaMufkarut (the Man of Lawlessness) will be revealed, whom HaAdon will destroy by the RUACH of His mouth and will wipe out at the appearance of His Bi'as (HaMoshiach, His Parousia, Coming). 
The Bi'as Anti-Moshiach (Coming, Parousia, of Anti-Moshiach) is according to the working of HaSatan with all false ko'ach (power) and otot (signs) and pseudo moftim (wonders), 
And with all deception of resha (wickedness) for those who are perishing, because they were not being mekabel (receiving) the Ahavas HaEmes (Love of the Truth) so that they have the Geulah deliverance. 
And for this reason Hashem sends to them a powerful madduchei shav (false enticement, delusion) in order that they believe what is sheker. 
This is for the tachlis (purpose) of condemning to Onesh all the ones who have no emunah in HaEmes, but instead have had delight in resha. 
But we ought always to offer hodayah (thanksgiving) and make brachot to Hashem concerning you, Achim b'Moshiach, ahuvei Hashem, because Hashem chose you as bikkurim (first fruits) for the Geulah through mekudash b'Ruach HaKodesh (being set apart as holy in the Ruach HaKodesh) and through emunah in HaEmes. 
This is HaEmes to which Hashem called you through our Besuras HaGeulah to the obtaining of the kavod of Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua. 
So then, Achim b'Moshiach, stand fast and hold fast to the emunah, the Moshiachʼs pnimiyus haTorah that was handed over and transmitted to you, which you were taught, whether by divrei pinu (words of our mouth) or by our iggeret hakodesh. 
Now may HaMelech HaMoshiach Yehoshua Adoneinu Himself and Elohim Avinu, who has regarded us with ahavah (agape), and has granted us nechamat olam (eternal consolation) and tikvah tovah (good hope) by the unmerited Chesed of Hashem, 
May He give chozek (strength) and encouragement to you in every mitzvah (good deed) you do and in every dibur (utterance) you speak. 
