BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 5.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Command the Bnei Yisroel, that they put out of the machaneh every tzaru'a, and every one that hath a discharge, and whosoever is tameh lanefesh (unclean, defiled by reason of contact with a corpse), 
Both zachar and nekevah shall ye put out, without the machaneh shall ye put them; that they defile not their machanot, in the midst whereof I dwell. 
And the Bnei Yisroel did so, and put them outside the machaneh; just as Hashem spoke unto Moshe, so did the Bnei Yisroel. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, When a man or woman shall commit any chattot that men commit, l'me'ol ma'al baHashem(thereby trespassing against Hashem), and feels guilty; 
Then they shall make vidduy (confession of sin) of their chattot which they have committed; and shall make reparation in full, and add unto it the fifth part thereof, and give it unto him against whom they hath incurred liability. 
But if the man have no go'el unto whom reparation for the asham can be made, let the asham be recompensed unto Hashem, even to the kohen, besides the ram of the kippurim, whereby a kapporah shall be made on his behalf. 
And every terumah of all the holy things of the Bnei Yisroel, which they bring unto the kohen, shall be his. 
And every manʼs things set apart as kodesh shall be his; whatsoever any man giveth the kohen, it shall be his. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, and say unto them, If any manʼs isha go aside, and commit a trespass against him, 
And a man lie with her carnally, and it be hid from the eyes of her ish, and she become tameh secretly, and there be no ed (witness) against her, neither she be caught; 
And a ruach kina (spirit of jealousy) come upon him, and he be jealous of his isha, and she be tameh; or if a ruach kina come upon him, and he be jealous of his isha, and she be not tameh; 
Then shall the ish bring his isha unto the kohen, and he shall bring her korban for her, the tenth part of an ephah of barley meal; he shall pour no shemen upon it, nor put incense thereon; for it is a minchat kenaot (grain offering of jealousies), a minchat zikaron (grain offering of memorial), bringing avon to remembrance. 
And the kohen shall bring her near, and set her before Hashem; 
And the kohen shall take mayim kedoshim in an earthen vessel; and of the dust that is in the floor of the Mishkan the kohen shall take, and put it into the mayim; 
And the kohen shall set the isha before Hashem, and unbind the hair of the isha, and put the minchat hazikaron in her hands, which is the minchat kena'ot; and the kohen shall have in his hand the mei hamarim hame'ararim (waters of bitterness that causeth the curse); 
And the kohen shall put her under oath, and say unto the isha, If no man have lain with thee, and if thou hast not turned astray to tum'a (uncleanness, impurity) with another instead of thy husband, be thou free from these mei hamarim hame'ararim; 
But if thou hast turned astray to another instead of thy ish, and if thou be defiled, and some man have lain with thee other than thine ish; 
Then the kohen shall put the isha under oath with the oath of the curse, and the kohen shall say unto the isha, Hashem make thee an alah (curse) and a shevu'ah (oath) among thy people, when Hashem doth make thy thigh to waste away, and thy belly to swell; 
And this mayim that causeth the curse shall go into thy inner parts, to make thy belly to swell, and thy thigh to waste away; And the isha shall say, Omen, Omen. 
And the kohen shall write these alot (curses) on a sefer, and he shall wash them into the mei hamarim; 
And he shall cause the isha to drink the mei hamarim hame'ararim; and the mayim hame'ararim shall enter into her, and become bitter. 
Then the kohen shall take the minchat hakena'ot out of the yad haisha, and shall wave the minchah before Hashem, and offer it upon the Mizbe'ach: 
And the kohen shall take a handful of the minchah, even the memorial thereof, and burn it upon the Mizbe'ach, and afterward shall cause the isha to drink the mayim. 
And when he hath made her to drink the mayim, then it shall come to pass, that, if she be defiled, and have done trespass against her ish, that the mayim hame'ararim shall enter into her, and become bitter, and her belly shall swell, and her thigh shall waste away; and the isha shall become a curse among her people. 
And if the isha be not defiled, but be tehorah (clean); then she shall be free, and shall conceive zera. 
This is the torat hakena'ot (law of jealousy), when an isha goeth astray to another instead of her ish, and is defiled; 
Or when the ruach kinah cometh upon him, and he be jealous over his isha, and shall set the isha before Hashem, and the kohen shall execute upon her all this torah. 
Then shall the ish be free from guilt from avon, and this isha shall bear her avon. 
