2 Corinthians.
Chapter 6.
As we work together with him, we also urge you not to receive the Chen v'Chesed Hashem in vain. 
For he says, “In a time acceptable I heard you and in a day of salvation I helped you.” Hinei, now is the acceptable time; now is the Yom Yeshu'ah, 
Not giving in anything a cause for michshol, lest the Messianic Avodas Kodesh (holy worship, service) be blamed; 
But in everything presenting ourselves as Klei Kodesh of Hashem in much savlanut (patience), in tzoros, in hardships, in distresses, 
In beatings, in imprisonments, in riots, in labors, in watchings, in tzomot; 
In purity, in da'as, in longsuffering, in chesed, in the Ruach Hakodesh, in ahavah amittit, 
In the dvar HaEmes, in the gevurat Hashem, through the weapons of Tzedek of the right hand and of the left. 
Through honor and dishonor, through ill repute and good repute; as “deceivers” and yet true, 
As being unknown and yet being well known, as dying and hinei, we live! As given the mishpat mavet and yet not penalized with death; 
As having agmat nefesh but always having simcha, as poor but enriching many, as having nothing and yet possessing everything. 
We have spoken freely with you Corinthians, our levavot has been enlarged. 
There is no penury in our affections, only in yours. 
Now — I speak as to yeladim — make a fair exchange and open wide your levavot. 
Do not become unequally yoked with koferim(unbelievers), for what shuttafut (partnership) has Tzedek with Lawlessness? Or where is the Brit (Covenant) between Ohr (light) and Choshech (darkness)? 
And what harmony does Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach have with B'liya'al? Or what chelek (allotment, inheritance) has a ma'amin with an Apikoros? 
And what agreement has the Heikhal of Hashem with elilim? For we are a Heikhal of the Elohim Chayyim as G-d said, V'HITHALLACHTI B'TOCHCHEM (And I will walk in the midst of you), IT WILL BE MISHKANI ALEHEM (dwelling place of me with them), V'HAYU LI L'AM VAANI EHEYEH LAHEM LELOHIM (And they will be to me as people and I will be to them as G-d). 
Therefore, SURU (Depart!), come out from the midst of them and be separated, says Adoneinu, and a TAMEH AL TIGAU(unclean thing do not touch); ERTZEH ETCHEM (and I will receive you), 
And I will be to you an AV and you will be to me BANIM and BANOT (my sons and daughters), says Adonoi Tzva'ot. 
