2 Corinthians.
Chapter 5.
For we have da'as that if the beit mishkaneinu is made churban, we have a bais from Hashem, not made with hands, a Bais L'olamim b'Shomayim. 
For indeed in this mishkaneinu we groan, longing for the train of our robe to be our sukkah from Shomayim. 
If indeed thus clothed we will not be found naked. 
For while we are still in this mishkan, we groan under our burden, in as much as we do not want to be unclothed but to be clothed, that the mortal may be swallowed up by Chayyim. 
Now the One having prepared us for this very thing is Hashem, the One having given us the eravon (pledge) of the Ruach Hakodesh. 
Therefore we always have bitachon since we have da'as that being at home in the basar, we are away from home in Adoneinu. 
For we walk by emunah (faith), not by sight; 
Therefore we have bitachon and are pleased rather to leave home from the basar and to be at home with Adoneinu. 
Therefore, also we are aspiring, whether at home, or away from home, to be well pleasing to Hashem, 
Since it is necessary for all of us to be revealed/laid bare for an appearance before the Kisse Din (Judgment Throne, i.e., Moshiachʼs Bet Din) of Moshiach, in order that each one of us individually may receive recompense for the things done in the basar, according to his ma'asim, whether tov or rah. 
Therefore, since we have da'as of the yirat Moshiach Adoneinu, we persuade men, and we have been made manifest to Hashem and I have tikvah also that we have been made manifest to your matzpunim. 
We are not commending ourselves to you again, but are giving an opportunity to you of glorying on behalf of us that you may respond to those who glory in outer appearance and not in lev. 
For if we have hislayves and dveykes (ecstasy), it is for Hashem; if we are in our right mind, it is for you. 
For the ahavah (love) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach controls us, because we have judged this, that one Moshiach died on behalf of all and therefore all died. 
And Moshiach died on behalf of all, that the ones living may no longer live to themselves but may live to the one Moshiach who both died and has been made to stand up alive in his Techiyas HaMoshiach for their sakes. 
From now on, therefore, we have da'as of no one from a purely human point of view; if indeed we have had da'as of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach according to the basar, we now no longer so have da'as of him, 
So that if anyone is in Moshiach, he is a bria chadasha(a new being): the old things passed away; hinei, all has become chadashot. 
And all things are of Hashem, Who is the One having granted to us ritztzuy (reconciliation) to Himself through Moshiach and has given to us the sherut haRitztzuy (the ministry of reconciliation), 
Davka (specifically), that Hashem was in Moshiach reconciling the Olam to himself, not reckoning their avonot against them and putting in us the Dvar HaRitztzuy (Message of Reconciliation). 
On behalf of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, therefore, we are emissaries of shalom, as if Hashem were entreating through us, we ask on behalf of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach: be reconciled to Hashem! 
The one who in his person had no da'as of chataah (sin), this one Hashem made chataah on our behalf that we might become the Tzidkat Hashem in Moshiach. 
