EKHAH.
Chapter 2.
How hath Adonoi covered Bat Tziyon with a cloud in His anger, and hurled down from Shomayim unto Eretz the tiferet Yisroel, and remembered not His hadom (footstool) in the Day of His Wrath! 
Adonoi hath swallowed up all the habitations of Ya'akov, and hath not pitied; He hath torn down in His Wrath the strongholds of Bat Yehudah; He hath brought them down to the ground; chillel (He hath defiled) the mamlachah and the sarim (princes) thereof. 
He hath cut off in His fierce anger kol keren Yisroel; He hath drawn back His right hand from before the oyev, and He burned against Ya'akov like a flaming eish, which devoureth all around. 
He hath bent His keshet (bow) like an oyev; He took His stand with His right hand as an adversary, and slaughtered all that were pleasant to the eye in the ohel Bat Tziyon; He poured out His fury like eish. 
Adonoi was like an oyev; He hath swallowed up Yisroel, He hath swallowed up all her armonot (palaces); He hath destroyed His strongholds, and hath increased in Bat Yehudah mourning and lamentation. 
And He hath violently destroyed His sukkah, as if it were of a gan (garden); He hath laid waste His Mo'ed; Hashem hath caused Mo'ed and Shabbos to be forgotten in Tziyon, and in the indignation of His anger hath spurned Melech and Kohen. 
Adonoi hath cast off His Mizbe'ach, He hath disowned His Mikdash, He hath given up into the yad oyev the chomot armonot of hers; they have raised shouts in the Beis Hashem, as in the Yom Mo'ed. 
Hashem hath purposed to destroy the Chomat Bat Tziyon; He hath stretched out a measuring line, He hath not withdrawn His hand from destroying; therefore He made the rampart and the chomah to lament; they languished together. 
Her she'arim are sunk into the ground; He hath destroyed and broken her bars; her melech and her sarim (princes) are among the Goyim; the torah is no more; her nevi'im also find no chazon (vision) from Hashem. 
The Ziknei Bat Tziyon sit upon the ground, and keep silence; they have cast up aphar upon their heads; they have girded themselves with sackcloth; the Betulot Yerushalayim hang down their heads to the ground. 
Mine eyes do fail from weepings, my insides are troubled, empty and poured upon ha'aretz, for the destruction of Bat Ami; because the olel and the infant swoon in the rechovot of the city. 
They say to their imahot: Where is grain and yayin? Say they when they swooned like the wounded in the rechovot Ir, when their nefesh ebbed away into the kheyk imahot of them. 
What thing shall I say to thee? What thing shall I liken to thee, O Bat Yerushalayim? What shall I equal to thee, that I may comfort thee, O Betulat Bat Tziyon? For thy shever (destruction) is as gadol as the yam. Who can heal thee? 
Thy nevi'im have seen false and worthless visions for thee; and they have not exposed thine avon, to ward off thy captivity; but have seen for thee mase'ot shav and madduchim (false and misleading burdens, oracles). 
All that pass by clap their hands at thee; they hiss and wag their head at Bat Yerushalayim, saying: Is this the Ir that men call Kelilat Yofi Masos L'Khol HaAretz (perfection in beauty, the joy of the whole earth)? 
All thine enemies have opened their mouth against thee; they hiss and gnash their teeth; they cry: We have swallowed her! This is the Yom that we waited for; we have found, we have seen it. 
Hashem hath done that which He had devised; He hath fulfilled His word that He decreed in the yemai kedem; He hath overthrown, and hath not pitied, and He hath caused thine oyev to gloat over thee, He hath exalted the keren of thine adversaries. 
Their lev cried unto Adonoi: O Chomat Bat Tziyon, let tears run down like a river yomam valailah; give thyself no relief; let not thine eye rest. 
Arise, cry out balailah; in the beginning of the night watches pour out thine lev like mayim before the face of Adonoi; lift up thy hands to Him for the nefesh of thy ollelim, that faint for hunger on every street corner. 
Look, Hashem, and consider to whom Thou hast done this. Shall the nashim eat their offspring, the children they have cared for? Shall the Kohen and the Navi be slain in the Mikdash Adonoi? 
The na'ar and the zaken lie in the dust of the streets; my betulot and my bochurim are fallen by the cherev; Thou hast slain them in the Day of Thy Wrath; Thou hast slaughtered, and not pitied. 
Thou hast summoned as in a Yom Mo'ed my terrors all around, so that in the Yom Af Hashem none escaped nor remained; those that I have swaddled and reared hath mine oyev consumed. 
