Hebrews.
Chapter 13.
Let ahavat achim (brotherly love) continue. 
Do not neglect hachnosas orchim (hospitality), for by this some without having da'as of it, have entertained malachim. 
Have zikaron of the prisoners in the beis hasohar, as if having been bound with sharsherot (chains) with them; and those being tortured as though you were also. 
Let the marriage Chuppah have respect in the eyes of all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for those guilty of gilui arayot (sexual immorality) and no'afim (adulterers), Hashem will judge. 
Fier zich (comport oneself) in your derech free of chamdanut (covetousness), being content with what you have, for He Himself has said, LO ARPECHA V'LO E'EZVECHA(I will never desert you, nor will I ever forsake you), 
So that we say with bitachon, HASHEM LI my helper, LO IRA MAH YA'ASEH LI ADAM?(The L-rd is my helper, I will not be afraid. What shall man do to me?) 
Remember your manhigim and be machshiv (respect) and mechabed (honor) those who spoke to you the dvar Hashem; and considering the toitzaa (outcome) of their derech, imitate their Emunah. 
Yehoshua — Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, the same etmol, hayom, ul'Olamim. 
Do not be carried away by various torot zarot; for it is tov for the lev to be given chizzuk by the Chen v'Chesed Hashem, not by okhel through which those who were thus occupied were not benefited. 
We have a Mizbe'ach from which those who serve the Mishkan have no right to eat. 
For the zevakhim whose dahm is brought into the Kodesh HaKodashim by the Kohen Gadol as a Kapparat HaChet are burned outside the makhaneh (camp). 
Therefore, Yehoshua also, that he might make the Am Brit kedoshim through his own dahm, suffered outside the sha'ar. 
So then, let us go out to him outside the makhaneh, bearing the reproach of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
For we do not have here a lasting Ir HaKodesh, but we seek one to come. 
By him, therefore, let us offer up a zevach todah to Hashem continually, that is, the fruit of our lips, giving hoda'ah (confession) to SHMO (HIS NAME). 
But do not drift away from ma'asim tovim and sharing; for with such zevakhim Hashem is well pleased. 
Obey your manhigim and submit to them; for they are being shomer over your neshamot, as those who have achraius (answerability, accountability) to Hashem. Let them do so with simcha and not with agmat nefesh, for that would not be profitable for you. 
Daven tefillos for us, for we are persuaded that we have a clear matzpun (conscience) in everything, wishing to conduct ourselves commendably in all things. 
And I urge you all the more to do this, that I may be restored to you more quickly. 
Now the Elohei Hashalom, who brought up in the Techiyas HaMoshiach, HaRo'eh HaTzon HaGadol, through the Dahm Brit Olam, even Adoneinu, 
May He equip you with every ma'aseh tov in order to do His ratzon, working in us that which is well pleasing in His sight through Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua, to whom be kavod l'Olemei Olamim. Omein. 
Now I urge you, Achim b'Moshiach, bear with this dvar hachizzuk, for indeed an iggeret I have written you bekitzur (briefly, concisely). 
Have da'as that our Ach b'Moshiach Timotiyos has been released, with whom if he comes shortly, I will see you. 
Shalom greetings to all your manhigim and all the kedoshim. The ones from Italy send shalom greetings to you. 
Chen v'Chesed Hashem be with all of you.
