MISHLE.
Chapter 21.
The lev melech is in the yad Hashem, as the channels of mayim; He directeth it wherever He will. 
Every derech ish is yashar (right) in his own eynayim, but Hashem weigheth the hearts. 
To do tzedakah and mishpat is more acceptable to Hashem than zevach. 
A high and haughty eye, and a proud levner resha'im (the lamp of the wicked ones) — are chattat (sin). 
The plans of the kharutz (diligent) lead surely to profit; but of every one that is hasty surely to machsor (poverty, want). 
The getting of otzarot by a lashon sheker is hevel (vain, empty, meaningless) and fleeting for them that seek mavet. 
The violence of the resha'im shall drag them away; because they refuse to do mishpat (justice). 
The derech of the guilty ish is hafachpach (crooked, tortuous), but as for the pure, his conduct is yashar (right). 
It is better to dwell in a corner of the gag (roof), than with a quarrelsome isha in a shared bais. 
The nefesh of the rashah desireth rah; his re'a findeth no mercy in his eynayim. 
When the scoffer is punished, the simple is made wise, and when insight is disclosed to the chacham, he receiveth da'as. 
The tzaddik (righteous one) wisely considereth the bais of the rashah, and hurleth the resha'im to rah. 
He who stoppeth his ozen at the cry of the dal (poor), he also shall cry out himself, but shall not be heard. 
A mattan (gift) in secret pacifieth af (anger), and a shochad (bribe) in the kheyk (bosom), strong wrath. 
It is simchah to the tzaddik to do mishpat, but terror for the po'alei aven (workers of iniquity). 
The adam that wandereth astray from the derech haseichel (road of understanding) shall rest in the kahal of the refa'im (congregation of the dead). 
The ohev simchah (lover of pleasure) shall be an ish machsor (man of poverty, want, shortage); he that loveth yayin and shemen shall not be rich. 
The reshah shall be a kofer (ransom) for the tzaddik, and the boged (the unfaithful) for the yesharim. 
It is better to dwell in eretz midbar, than with a quarrelsome and an angry isha. 
There is otzar to be desired and shemen in the naveh (dwelling) of the chacham; but a kesil adam squanders it. 
He that pursueth tzedakah and chesed findeth chayyim, tzedakah, and kavod. 
A chacham scaleth the city of the gibborim (mighty ones), and casteth down the trusted stronghold thereof. 
He who is shomer over his peh (mouth) and his lashon (tongue) is shomer over his nefesh from tzoros. 
Proud and haughty scoffer is shmo, who acteth in superfluity of zadon (pride). 
The ta'avah (desire, craving) of the atzel (sluggard, lazy one) killeth him, for his yadayim refuse to work. 
He craveth greedily kol hayom, but the tzaddik giveth and spareth not. 
The zevach of the resha'im is to'evah (detestable, abomination); how much more, when he bringeth it with zimmah (evil intent). 
An ed kezavim (lying witness) shall perish, but the ish that heareth emes speaketh lanetzach (unto eternity). 
An ish rasha defiantly hardeneth his face, but as for the yashar (upright) he maketh his derech (road) sure. 
There is no chochmah nor tevunah (understanding) nor etzah against Hashem. 
The sus is prepared against the yom milchamah, but teshuah (victory, deliverance) is from Hashem. 
