YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 29.
Now these are the Devarim of the sefer that Yirmeyah HaNavi sent from Yerushalayim unto the surviving Zekenim of the Golus and to the Kohanim, and to the Nevi'im, and to kol HaAm whom Nevukhadnetzar had carried away captive from Yerushalayim to Bavel — 
This was after Yechanyah HaMelech, and the Gevirah (Queen Mother), and the sarisim, the sarim of Yehudah and Yerushalayim, and the carpenters, and the artisans had departed from Yerushalayim; 
The sefer was sent by the yad of El'asah Ben Shaphan, and Gemaryah Ben Chilkiyah, whom Tzidkiyah Melech Yehudah sent unto Bavel to Nevukhadnetzar Melech Bavel — and it said, 
Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel, unto all that are carried away into the Golus, whom I have caused to be carried away from Yerushalayim unto Bavel; 
Build ye batim (houses), and dwell in them; and plant gannot (gardens), and eat the p'ri (fruit) of them; 
Take ye nashim, and father banim and banot; and take nashim for your banim, and give your banot to anashim, that they may bear banim and banot; that ye may be increased there, and not diminished. 
And seek the shalom of the city where I have caused you to be carried away into the Golus, and daven unto Hashem for it; for in the shalom thereof shall ye have shalom. 
For thus saith Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel: Let not your nevi'im and your kesamim that be in the midst of you, deceive you, neither pay heed to your chalomot which ye cause to be dreamed. 
For they prophesy b'sheker (falsely) unto you in My Name; I have not sent them, saith Hashem. 
For thus saith Hashem: That after shiv'im shanah (seventy years) are accomplished at Bavel I will visit you, and perform My Davar Hatov toward you, in causing you to return to this makom. 
For I know the machshavot (thoughts, plans) that I think toward you, saith Hashem, machshavot shalom, and not of ra'ah, to give you an acharit (future) and a tikvah (hope). 
Then shall ye call upon Me, and ye shall go and v'hitpalaltem (and you plural will pray) unto Me, and I will pay heed unto you. 
And ye shall seek Me, and find Me, when ye shall search for Me b'chol lvavchem (with all your heart). 
And I will be found by you, saith Hashem; and I will bring you back from captivity, and I will gather you from all the Goyim, and from all the mekomot (places) where I have driven you, saith Hashem; and I will bring you back into the makom (place) from which I caused you to be carried away into the Golus. 
Because ye have said, Hashem hath raised up nevi'im for us in Bavel; 
Know that thus saith Hashem of HaMelech that sitteth upon the Kisse Dovid, and of kol HaAm that dwelleth in this city, and of your achim that are not gone forth with you into the Golus; 
Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os: Hineni, I will send upon them the cherev, the ra'av, and the dever, and will make them like rotten figs, that cannot be eaten, they are so bad. 
And I will pursue them with the cherev, with the ra'av, and with the dever, and will make them a horror to all the mamlechot ha'aretz, to be a curse, and an astonishment, and a hissing, and a cherpah, among all the Goyim where I have driven them; 
Because they have not paid heed to My devarim, saith Hashem, which I sent unto them by My Avadim the nevi'im, rising up early and sending them; but ye would not hear, saith Hashem. 
Hear ye therefore the Devar Hashem, all ye of the Golus, whom I have sent from Yerushalayim to Bavel; 
Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel, about Ach'av Ben Kolayah, and of Tzidkiyah Ben Ma'aseiyah, which prophesy sheker unto you in My Name; Hineni, I will deliver them into the yad Nevukhadretzar Melech Bavel; and he shall slay them before your eynayim; 
And of them shall be taken up a kelalah (curse) by all the Golus of Yehudah which are in Bavel, saying, Hashem make thee like Tzidkiyah and like Ach'av, whom Melech Bavel roasted in the eish; 
Because they have done nevalah (a foul deed, outrage) in Yisroel, and have committed ni'uf with their neighborsʼ nashim, and have spoken davar sheker in My Name, which I have not commanded them; I know, and am Ed (Witness), saith Hashem. 
Thus shalt thou also speak to Shema'yahu the Nechelami, saying, 
Thus speaketh Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel, saying, Because thou hast sent sefarim in thy shem unto kol HaAm that are in Yerushalayim, and to Tzephanyah Ben Ma'aseiyah the kohen, and to all the kohanim, saying, 
Hashem hath made thee kohen in the place of Yehoyada the kohen, that there should be pekidim (officers) in the Beis Hashem, over every ish that is meshuggah (mad, insane), and maketh himself a navi, that thou shouldest put him in the stocks, and in the neck iron. 
Now therefore why hast thou not reproved Yirmeyah of Anatot, which maketh himself a navi to you? 
For therefore he sent unto us in Bavel, saying, This captivity is long; build ye batim (houses), and dwell in them; and plant gannot (gardens), and eat the fruit of them. 
And Tzephanyah the kohen read this sefer in the oznayim of Yirmeyah HaNavi. 
Then came the Devar Hashem unto Yirmeyah, saying, 
Send to all them of the Golus, saying, Thus saith Hashem concerning Shema'yah the Nechelami; Because that Shemaiyah hath prophesied unto you, and I sent him not, and he caused you to trust in sheker; 
Therefore thus saith Hashem: Hinei, I will punish Shema'yah the Nechelami, and his zera; he shall not have an ish to dwell among this people; neither shall he behold the tov that I will do for My people, saith Hashem; because he hath spoken sarah (rebellion) against Hashem. 
