TEHILLIM.
Chapter 35.
(Of Dovid) 1 Contend, Hashem, with them that contend with me; fight against them that fight against me. 
Take hold of mogen and tzinnah (large shield) and arise to my aid. 
Draw out also the khanit (spear), and block the way against them that persecute me; say unto my nefesh, I am Thy Yeshu'ah (salvation). 
Let them be put to shame and disgraced that seek after my nefesh; let a rout in retreat be theirs and let them be brought to dismay that plot my ruin. 
Let them be like motz (chaff) before the ruach; and let the Malach Hashem drive them away. 
Let their derech be choshech and slippery; and let the Malach Hashem pursue them. 
For without cause have they hid for me their reshet (net) in a shachat (pit), which without cause they dug for my nefesh. 
Let sho'ah (disaster) come upon him unawares; and let his own reshet (net) that he hath hid ensnare him; into that very sho'ah let him fall. 
And my nefesh shall rejoice in Hashem; it shall be joyful in His Yeshu'ah (salvation). 
All my atzmot shall say, Hashem, mi khamocha (who is like Thee), Who deliverest the oni (poor) from him that is too strong for him, yes, the oni and the evyon (needy) from him that despoileth him? 
Edei chamas (witnesses of violence, false witnesses) rise up; they lay to my charge things, questioning me of that which I have no da'as. 
They repay me ra'ah for tovah to the forlornness of my nefesh. 
But as for me, when they were choleh (ill), my clothing was sackcloth; I humbled my nefesh with tzom (fasting); and my tefillah (prayer) turned back on mine own kheyk (bosom). 
I went about as though he had been my re'a or ach; I bowed in sadness, as one that mourneth for his em. 
But at mine stumbling they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together; yes, the attackers gathered themselves together against me, and I had no da'as; they did tear at me, and ceased not: 
Like chanef (hypocritical) mockers at cake, they gnashed upon me with their teeth. 
Adonoi, how long wilt Thou look on? Rescue my nefesh from their destructions, my yechidah (only one, my life) from the lions. 
I will give Thee thanks in the kahal rav (great congregation); I will praise Thee among the mighty throng. 
Let not them that are mine oyevim gloat over me; neither let them wink with the eye that have sinas chinom (baseless hatred) toward me. 
For they speak not shalom, but they scheme divrei mirmot (deceitful matters) against the rigei eretz (them that are quiet in the land). 
Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me, and said, Aha, aha, our eye hath seen it. 
This Thou hast seen, Hashem; keep not silent; Adonoi, be not far from me. 
Stir up Thyself, and awake to my mishpat, even to my cause, Elohai and Adonoi. 
Vindicate me, Hashem Elohai, according to Thy tzedakah; and let them not gloat over me. 
Let them not say in their lev, Ah, so would we have it; let them not say, We have swallowed him up. 
Let them be put to shame and brought to confusion together that gloat at mine ra'ah (disaster, distress); let them be clothed with boshet (shame) and kelimah (dishonor, disgrace) that exalt themselves against me. 
Let them sing for joy, and be glad, that favor my tzedek (righteousness, vindication); yes, let them say tamid (continually), Let Hashem be magnified, which hath pleasure in the shalom (welfare) of His eved. 
And my leshon (tongue) shall speak of Thy tzedek (righteousness) and of Thy tehillah (praise) kol hayom (all the day). 
