TEHILLIM.
Chapter 31.
(For the one directing. Mizmor Dovid) 
In Thee, Hashem, do I take refuge; let me never be put to shame; deliver me in Thy tzedakah. 
Incline Thine ear to me; deliver me speedily; be Thou for me a Tzur Ma'oz, a Bais Metzudot (fortress) to save me. 
For Thou art my Sela (rock) and my Metzudah (fortress); therefore for the sake of Thy Name, lead me, and guide me. 
Pull me out of the reshet (trap, net) that they have laid for me; for Thou art my ma'oz (stronghold). 
Into Thine yad I commit my ruach; Thou hast redeemed me, Hashem El Emes. 
I hate them that are the shomrim of lying vanities; but I trust in Hashem. 
I will be glad and rejoice in Thy chesed; for Thou hast seen my affliction; Thou hast known the tzoros (troubles) of my nefesh; 
And hast not shut me up into the yad of the oyev (enemy); Thou hast set my feet in a merkhav (large place, spacious or broad place). 
Channeni, Hashem, for I am in tzoros; mine eye is consumed with ka'as (grief), my nefesh and my beten. 
For my life is spent with grief, and my years with groaning; my ko'ach faileth because of mine avon (iniquity), and my atzmot waste away. 
I was a cherpah (reproach, scorn, disgrace) among all mine enemies, but especially among my shchenim (neighbors), and a dread to mine acquaintance; they that did see me outside fled from me. 
I am forgotten like a dead man out of mind; I am like a keli oved (broken vessel). 
For I have heard the dibbah (evil report, slander) of many; terror was on every side; while they conspire against me, they plot to take my nefesh. 
But I trust in Thee, Hashem; I said, Thou art Elohai. 
My times are in Thy yad; deliver me from the yad of mine oyevim (enemies), and from them that persecute me. 
Make Thy face to shine upon Thy eved; hoshi'eini (save me) for the sake of Thy chesed. 
Let me not be put to shame, Hashem; for I have called upon Thee; let the resha'im be put to shame, and let them keep silent in Sheol. 
Let the siftei sheker (lying lips) be put to silence; which speak insolent things with ga'avah (pride) and contemptuously against the tzaddik. 
Oh how great is Thy goodness, which Thou hast stored up for them that fear Thee; which Thou hast wrought for them that take refuge in Thee before the Bnei Adam! 
Thou shalt hide them b'seter (in the shelter) of Thy presence from the intrigues of ish; Thou shalt keep them safe in a sukkah from the riv l'shonot (the strife of tongues, contentious lashon hora, backbiting, slander). 
Baruch Hashem! For He hath showed me His wondrous chesed in an Ir Matzor (besieged city). 
For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before Thine eyes; nevertheless Thou heardest the voice of my tachanun (supplications) when unto Thee I cried for help. 
O love Hashem, all ye His Chasidim; for Hashem preserveth the emunim (the faithful ones), but He pays back in full the oseh ga'avah (the one acting in pride, haughtily). 
Chazak! Be strong, let your levav take courage, all ye that hope in Hashem. 
