MICHOH.
Chapter 4.
But in the acharit hayamim (the last days) it shall come to pass, that the Har Beis Hashem shall be established as the rosh heharim (chief of mountains), and it shall be exalted above the hills; and amim (peoples) shall stream unto it. 
And Goyim rabbim shall come, and say: Come, and let us go up to the Har Hashem, and to the Beis Elohei Ya'akov; and He (Hashem) will be moreinu of His drakhim (ways), and we will walk in His orkhot (ways); for torah shall go forth from Tziyon, and the Devar Hashem from Yerushalayim. 
And He shall judge among amim rabbim, and Hashem will be mochiach (arbitrator) for Goyim atzumim afar off; and they shall beat their charavot (swords) into plow blades, and their khanitot (spears) into pruning knives; And Goy el Goy (nation against nation) will not take up cherev (sword), neither shall they learn milchamah (war) any more. 
But they shall sit every man under his gefen (vine) and under his te'enah (fig tree); and none shall make them afraid; for the mouth of Hashem Tzva'os hath spoken. 
For Kol HaAmmim will walk every one b'shem Elohav, and we will walk b'shem Hashem Eloheinu l'olam va'ed. 
In Yom HaHu, saith Hashem, will I gather that which is lame, and I will gather those which have been thrust out, and those that I have afflicted; 
And I will make that which is lame a She'erit (remnant), v'hannahala'ah (and that which is far removed) a Goy atzum (mighty nation); and Hashem shall reign over them in Har Tziyon me'attah ve'ad olam (from henceforth, even for ever). 
And thou, O migdal eder (tower of the flock), hill of Bat Tziyon, unto thee shall it come, even the hammemshalah harishonah (former dominion); the mamlachah (kingdom) shall come to Bat Yerushalayim. 
Now why dost thou cry out aloud? Is there no melech in thee? Is thy yo'eitz (counselor) perished? For pangs have taken thee like a woman in labor. 
Be in pain, and labor to bring forth, O Bat Tziyon, like a woman in labor; for now shalt thou go forth out of the city, and thou shalt dwell in the sadeh, and thou shalt go even to Babylon; there shalt thou be rescued; there Hashem shall redeem thee from the hand of thine oyvim (enemies). 
Now also Goyim rabbim are gathered against thee, that say: Let her be profaned and desecrated, and let our eye gloat over Tziyon. 
But they have no da'as of the machshevot Hashem(thoughts of Hashem), neither have they binah (understanding) of His etzah (divine plan); for He shall gather them like the sheaves into the threshing floor. 
Arise and thresh, O Bat Tziyon; for I will make thine keren (horn) barzel (iron), and I will make thy hooves bronze; and thou shalt beat in pieces amim rabbim; and I will devote unto Hashem as cherem their ill-gotten gains, and their wealth unto Adon Kol HaAretz. 
Now gather thyself in troops, O Bat Gedud (Daughter of Troops); a matzor (siege) hath been laid against us; they shall strike the Shofet Yisroel with a rod upon the cheek. 
