YOCHANAN.
Chapter 16.
I have spoken these things to you that no cause of michshol (stumbling, falling) may trip you up. 
They will put you under the cherem ban in the shuls. A sha'ah (hour, time) is coming when everyone who kills you will suppose they are offering avodas kodesh to Hashem. 
And these things they will do because they did not have da'as of HaAv or of me. 
But these things I have spoken to you, that, when the sha'ah of these things comes, you might have zikaron (remembrance) of these things, that I told you. But I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you. 
But now I am going to the One who sent me. And none of you asks me, Where are you going? 
But because I have spoken these things to you, agmat nefesh (grief) has filled your levavot (heart). 
But I tell HaEmes (the truth), it is better for you that I go away. For if I do not go away, the Melitz Yosher (Praklit, Advocate, Counselor, Helper in Court) will not come to you. But if go, I will send Him (the Ruach Hakodesh) to you. 
And having come, that one will expose and convict the Olam Hazeh concerning Chet and concerning Tzedek and concerning Mishpat: 
Concerning Chet (Sin), because they do not have emunah in me; 
Concerning Tzedek, because I go to HaAv and no longer do you see me; 
And concerning Mishpat (Judgment), because the Sar HaOlam Hazeh has been judged. 
Yet many things I have to tell you, but you are not able to bear them now. 
But when that One has come, the Ruach Hakodesh, the Ruach HaEmes, He will guide you in all truth. For He will not speak on His own authority, but what things He will hear, He will speak, and the things that are to come He will announce to you. 
That One will give kavod to me, because He will receive of what is mine, and will announce it to you. 
All things which HaAv has are mine; therefore, I said that of mine He receives and will announce it to you. 
A little time and you no longer see me. And again a little time, and you will see me. 
Therefore, some of the talmidim of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to one another, What is this which he says to us? A little time and you do not see me. And, again, A little time and you will see me? And, Because I go to HaAv? 
Therefore, they were saying, What is this, which he says, A little time? We do not have da'as of what he says. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach knew that they were wanting to ask him. And he said to them, About this you inquire of one another that I said, A little time and you do not see me. And, again, a little time and you will see me? 
Omein, omein, I say to you, that there will be bechi (weeping) and avelut (mourning), but the Olam Hazeh will have simcha. You will have agmat nefesh, but your agmat nefesh (grief) will become simcha. 
The isha (woman) when she gives birth, has agmat nefesh (grief), because the sha'ah (hour, time) of her has come. But when she gives birth to the yeled, she no longer has zikaron of the Tribulation because of the naches that an ish was born into the Olam Hazeh. 
Therefore, you have agmat nefesh (grief) now, but again I will see you, and your levavot will have rejoicing and the simcha of you no one takes from you. 
And on that day you will not ask me anything. Omein, omein, I say to you, whatever you ask HaAv b'Shem of me, He will give it to you. 
Until now you did not ask anything b'Shem of me. Ask and you will receive that the simcha of you may be shleimah. 
Regarding these things I have spoken figuratively. A sha'ah comes when no longer I will speak figuratively to you, but will announce plainly to you concerning HaAv. 
On that day b'Shem of me you will ask, and I do not say to you that I will ask HaAv concerning you. 
For HaAv Himself has ahavah for you, because you have ahavah for me and have emunah that I came forth from HaAv. 
I came from HaAv and I have come into the Olam Hazeh. Again I leave the Olam Hazeh and go to HaAv. 
The talmidim of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach say, Hinei, see now you speak plainly and no longer figuratively do you speak. 
Now we know that you have da'as of all things, and you have no need that any test you with any she'elah (question). By this we have emunah that you came forth from Hashem. 
He answered them, Do you have emunah? 
Hinei a sha'ah (hour, time) is coming and has come, that you are SCATTERED each one to his own home, and you leave me alone, but I am not alone, because HaAv is with me. 
These things I have spoken to you that in me you may have shalom. In the Olam Hazeh you have tribulation; but have lev same'ach. I have conquered the Olam Hazeh. 
