MELACHIM BAIS.
Chapter 22.
Yoshiyah was 8 years old when he began to reign, and he reigned 31 shanah in Yerushalayim. And shem immo was Yedidah Bat Adayah of Botzkat. 
And he did that which was yashar in the eyes of Hashem, and walked in kol derech Dovid Aviv, and turned not aside to the yamin or smol. 
And it came to pass in the 18th year of Melech Yoshiyah, that HaMelech sent Shaphan Ben Atzalyahu Ben Meshullam, the Sofer, to the Beis Hashem, saying, 
Go up to Chilkiyahu the Kohen HaGadol, that he may count the kesef which is brought into the Beis Hashem, which the Shomrei HaSaf (the Doorkeepers) have collected of the people; 
And let them entrust it into the yad oseh hamelachah (hand of the master workmen), that have the mufkadim (oversight) of the Beis Hashem; and let them pay it to the workmen that wrought in the Beis Hashem, to repair and restore HaBeis, 
Unto kharashim (craftsmen, artisans) and bonim (builders) and goderim (masons), and to purchase etzim (timber) and quarried stone to repair HaBeis. 
Howbeit there was no accounting made with them of the kesef that was entrusted into their yad, because they dealt be'emunah (faithfully). 
And Chilkiyahu the Kohen HaGadol said unto Shaphan the Sofer, I have found the Sefer HaTorah in the Beis Hashem. And Chilkiyahu gave the Sefer to Shaphan, and he read it. 
And Shaphan the Sofer came to HaMelech, brought HaMelech word again, and said, Thy avadim have emptied out the kesef that was found in HaBeis, and have entrusted it into the yad osei hamelachah, that have the mufkadim of the Beis Hashem. 
And Shaphan the Sofer showed HaMelech, saying, Chilkiyah the Kohen hath delivered unto me a Sefer (Scroll). And Shaphan read it before HaMelech. 
And it came to pass, when HaMelech had heard the Divrei Sefer HaTorah, that he tore his garments. 
And HaMelech commanded Chilkiyah HaKohen, and Achikam Ben Shaphan, and Achbor Ben Michayah, and Shaphan the Sofer, and Asayah Eved HaMelech, saying, 
Go ye, inquire of Hashem for me, and for HaAm, and for kol Yehudah, concerning the Divrei HaSefer that is found; for gedolah is chamat Hashem that is kindled against us, because Avoteinu have not paid heed unto the Divrei HaSefer Hazeh, to do according unto all that which is written concerning us. 
So Chilkiyahu HaKohen, and Achikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asayah, went unto Chuldah the neviah, the wife of Shallum ben Tikvah, ben Charchas, Shomer HaBegadim (Keeper of the Wardrobe); (now she dwelt in Yerushalayim in the Mishneh); and they spoke with her. 
And she said unto them, Thus saith Hashem Elohei Yisroel, Tell the ish that sent you to me, 
Thus saith Hashem, Hineni, I will bring ra'ah upon this makom (place), and upon the inhabitants thereof, even kol Divrei HaSefer which Melech Yehudah hath read; 
Because they have forsaken Me, and have burned ketoret unto elohim acherim, that they might provoke Me to anger with all the works of their hands; therefore My wrath shall be kindled against this makom (place), and shall not be quenched. 
But to Melech Yehudah which sent you to inquire of Hashem, thus shall ye say to him, Thus saith Hashem Elohei Yisroel, As touching the words which thou hast heard; 
Because thine lev was tender, and thou hast humbled thyself before Hashem, when thou heardest what I spoke against this place, and against the inhabitants thereof, that they should become a desolation and a klalah (curse), and hast torn thy garments, and wept before Me; I also have heard thee, saith Hashem. 
Hineni, therefore, I will gather thee unto Avoteicha, and thou shalt be gathered into thy kevarot in shalom; and thine eyes shall not see kol hara'ah which I will bring upon this place. And they brought back word to HaMelech. 
