BERESHIS.
Chapter 3.
Now the Nachash was more arum (cunning, crafty, wiley) than any beast of the sadeh which Hashem Elohim had made. And he said unto the isha, Really? Hath Elohim said, Ye shall not eat of kol etz hagan? 
And the isha said unto the Nachash, We may eat of the p'ri etz hagan; 
But of the p'ri haEtz which is in the middle of the gan (garden), Elohim hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. 
And the Nachash said unto the isha, Ye shall not surely die; 
For Elohim doth know that in the yom ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be like Elohim, knowing tov and rah. 
And when the isha saw that HaEtz was tov for food, and that it was delight to the eyes, and HaEtz to be coveted to make one have seichel, she took of the p'ri thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her ish with her; and he did eat. 
And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were eirummim (naked ones); and they sewed aleh te'enah (fig leaves) together, and made themselves khagorot (loin covering girdles). 
And they heard the kol of Hashem Elohim walking in the gan in the cool of the day; and HaAdam and his isha hid from the presence of Hashem Elohim amongst the etz hagan. 
And Hashem Elohim called unto HaAdam, and said unto him, Where art thou? 
And he said, I heard Thy voice in the gan (garden), and I was afraid, because I was eirom (naked); and so I hid. 
And He said, Who told thee that thou wast eirom (naked)? Hast thou eaten of HaEtz, which I commanded thee that thou not eat thereof? 
And HaAdam said, The isha whom Thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of HaEtz, and I did eat. 
And Hashem Elohim said unto the isha, What is this that thou hast done? And the isha said, The Nachash beguiled me, and I did eat. 
And Hashem Elohim said unto the Nachash, Because thou hast done this, thou art arur (cursed) above kol habehemah, and above every beast of the sadeh; upon thy gakhon (belly) shalt thou go, and aphar shalt thou eat all the days of thy life; 
And I will put eivah between thee and HaIsha, and between thy zera and her Zera; He shall crush thy rosh, and thou shalt strike His akev (heel). 
Unto HaIsha He said, I will greatly multiply thy itzavon (labor pain) and thy childbearing; in pain thou shalt bring forth banim; and thy teshukah (longing, desire) shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee. 
And unto Adam He said, Because thou paid heed unto the voice of thy isha, and hast eaten of HaEtz, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it, arurah (cursed) is haadamah because of thee; in itzavon(pain, suffering) shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life; 
Kotz also and dardar shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the esev of the sadeh; 
In the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat lechem, till thou return unto haadamah; for out of it wast thou taken; for aphar thou art, and unto aphar shalt thou return. 
And HaAdam called the shem of his isha Chavah (Eve); because she was the Em kol chai. 
Unto Adam also and to his isha did Hashem Elohim make kesonos ohr, and clothed them. 
And Hashem Elohim said, See, HaAdam is become like one of Us, knowing tov v'rah; and now, lest he put forth his yad, and take also of HaEtz HaChayyim, and eat, and chai l'olam (live forever); 
Therefore Hashem Elohim sent him forth from the Gan Eden, to work haadamah from which place he was taken. 
So He drove out HaAdam; and He placed miKedem (at the east) of the Gan Eden HaKeruvim, and a flaming cherev which was ever-turning, to be shomer over the Derech Etz HaChayyim. 
