YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 10.
Hear ye the Davar which Hashem speaketh unto you, O Bais Yisroel. 
Thus saith Hashem: Learn not the Derech HaGoyim, and be not in awe of the otot HaShomayim; though the Goyim are in awe of them. 
For the religious chukkot (customs, statutes) of the nations are vain delusions; for one cutteth etz out of the ya'ar (forest), the ma'aseh (handiwork) of the hands of the charash (workman, artisan), with the axe. 
They deck it with kesef and with zahav; they fasten it with nails and with hammers, that it topple not. 
They are upright as the tomer (palm tree), but speak not; they must needs be carried, because they cannot go. Be not afraid of them; for they cannot do rah, neither also is it in them to do tov. 
Forasmuch as there is none like unto Thee, Hashem; Thou art gadol, and Thy Shem is gadol in gevurah. 
Who would not fear thee, O Melech HaGoyim? For this is Thy due; forasmuch as among all the chachamim of the Goyim, and in kol malchut of them, there is none like unto Thee. 
But they are altogether stupid and foolish; the etz is a musar havalim (discipline of delusions). 
Hammered kesef is brought from Tarshish, and zahav from Uphaz, the ma'aseh (work, handiwork) of the charash (workman, artisan), and of the hands of the goldsmith; blue and purple is their clothing; they are all the ma'aseh (work) of skillful men. 
But Hashem is the Elohim Emes, He is the Elohim Chayyim, and the Melech Olam; at His wrath ha'aretz shall tremble, and the Goyim shall not be able to endure His indignation. 
Thus shall ye say unto them: The g-ds that have not made the heavens and the earth, even they shall perish from the earth, and min techot (from under) these heavens. 
He hath made eretz by His ko'ach, He hath established the tevel (world) by His chochmah, and hath stretched out Shomayim by His understanding. 
When He uttereth His voice, there is a multitude of mayim in Shomayim, and He causeth the clouds to ascend from the ends of ha'aretz; He maketh lightnings with matar (rain), and bringeth forth the ruach (wind) out of His Otzerot. 
Kol Adam is stupid in his da'as; every goldsmith is shamed by the pesel (idol); for his nesekh (molten image) is sheker, and there is no ruach in them. 
They are hevel (vanity, delusion), and the ma'aseh (work) of delusion; in the time of their pekudat (visitation, punishment) they shall perish. 
The chelek of Ya'akov is not like them; for the Yotzer HaKol (Maker of All, Creator of All) is He; and Yisroel is the shevet (rod) of His nachalah; Hashem Tzva'os Shmo. 
Gather up thy gear for Exile meEretz (from the Land), O besieged inhabitant. 
For thus saith Hashem: Behold, I will sling out the inhabitants of HaAretz at this time, and will bring distress upon them, so that find they may. 
Oy li (woe is me) for my disaster! My wound is grievous; but I said: Truly this is a sickness, and I must bear it. 
My ohel is destroyed, and all my tent cords are broken; my banim are gone forth of me, and are no more; there is none to pitch any more my ohel, and to hang up my tent curtains. 
For the ro'im (shepherds, pastors) are become stupid, and inquire not of Hashem; therefore they have not prospered, and all their flock has been scattered. 
Hinei, the noise! The report is come, and a great commotion out of Eretz Tzafon, to make the towns of Yehudah desolate, and a haunt of jackals. 
Hashem, I know that the derech of adam (man) is not in himself; it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps. 
Hashem, correct me, but with mishpat; not in Thine anger, lest Thou bring me to nothing. 
Pour out Thy fury upon the Goyim that know Thee not, and upon the mishpekhot that call not on Shimecha (Thy Name); for they have eaten up Ya'akov, and devoured him, and consumed him, and have made his habitation desolate. 
