BERESHIS.
Chapter 16.
Now Sarai Avramʼs isha bore him no children; and she had a shifchah, an Egyptian, whose shem was Hagar. 
And Sarai said unto Avram, Hinei now, Hashem hath restrained me from bearing; go now in unto my shifchah; it may be that I may build family by her. And Avram paid heed to the voice of Sarai. 
And Sarai Avramʼs isha took Hagar her shifchah the Egyptian, after Avram had dwelt ten years in Eretz Kena'an, and gave her to her husband Avram to be his isha. 
And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived; and when she saw that she had conceived, her gevirah was despised in her eyes. 
And Sarai said unto Avram, My wrong be upon thee; I have given my shifchah unto thy kheyk; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes; Hashem judge between me and thee. 
But Avram said unto Sarai, Hinei, thy shifchah is in thy hand; do to her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai dealt harshly with her, she fled from her face. 
And the Malach Hashem found her by a spring of mayim in the midbar, near the spring on the road to Shur. 
And he said, Hagar, Saraiʼs shifchah, from where camest thou? And where wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my gevirah Sarai. 
And the Malach Hashem said unto her, Return to thy gevirah, and submit thyself under her hands. 
And the Malach Hashem said unto her, I will multiply thy zera exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude. 
And the Malach Hashem said unto her, See, thou art with child and shalt bear ben, and shalt call shmo Yishmael; because Hashem shema thy oni (misery). 
And he will be a pere adam; his yad will be against kol, and kol yad against him; and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren. 
And she called the Shem of Hashem Who spoke unto her, El Roi (G-d Who Sees); for she said, Have I also here seen after Him that seeth me? 
Therefore the well was called Be'er Lachai Roi; hinei, it is between Kadesh and Bered. 
And Hagar bore Avram ben; and Avram called shem bno, which Hagar bore, Yishmael (Ishmael). 
And Avram was fourscore and six shanah when Hagar bore Yishmael to Avram. 
