Besuras Hageulah according to Mattityahu.
Chapter 1.
This is the sefer toldot of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua Ben Dovid, Ben Avraham. 
Avraham, then Yitzchak, Ya'akov, Yehudah and his brothers; 
then, through Yehudah, Peretz and Zerach by Tamar; then Chetzron, Ram; 
then Amminadav, Nachshon, Salmon; 
then Boaz by Rachav; then Oved by Ruth, then Yishai; 
then Yishai fathered Dovid HaMelech; then Sh'lomo by the wife of Uriyah; 
then Rechavam, Aviyah, Asa, 
then Yehoshafat, Yoram, Uziyahu; 
then Yotam, Achaz, Chizkiyahu, 
then Menasheh, Amon, Yoshiyahu, 
then Ykhanyahu and his achim from the days of the Golus in Babylon. 
After Ykhanyahu, then Shealtiel, then Zerubavel, 
then Avichud, then Elyakim, then Azur; 
then Tzadok, then Yakhin, then Elichud; 
then El'azar, then Mattan, then Ya'akov. 
Ya'akov fathered Yosef, the baal (husband) of Miryam, from whom was born Yehoshua, who is called Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
So then, there were arba'a asar (fourteen) dorot (generations) from Avraham to Dovid, and there were arba'a asar dorot from Dovid to the Golus in Babylon, and there were arba'a asar dorot from the Golus in Babylon to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
The huledet (birth) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was as follows. When Moshiachʼs Em, Miryam, had been given in erusin to Yosef, but before they came together, she was found with child through the Ruach Hakodesh. 
Her shidduch, Yosef, being a tzaddik and not wanting to humiliate her publicly, planned to deal with the get (divorce) in a private arrangement. 
Now just when Yosef had thought through to this tachlis (purpose) hinei! A malach Hashem appeared to him in a chalom, and said, Yosef ben Dovid, do not shrink from taking Miryam in nisuim (marriage) as your kallah (bride), because what has been conceived in her is through the Ruach Hakodesh. 
And she shall bear BEN (Son) and you will call SHMO(his name) YEHOSHUA because he will bring his people yeshu'ah (rescue, salvation, deliverance) from their peyshaim (rebellions). 
Now all this occurred so that which was spoken by Hashem through the Navi might be fulfilled, 
HINEI, HAALMAH HARAH V'YOLEDET BEN VKARAT SHMO IMMANU-EL (Behold, the Virgin will be with child and will bear Son and will call his name Immanu-El) — which translated means G-d is with us. 
Then Yosef, rising up from sleep, did as the malach Hashem commanded him and he took his kallah. 
And Yosef did not know her until she bore BEN and Yosef called him by name of Yehoshua. 
