BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 30.
And Moshe told the Bnei Yisroel according to all that Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And Moshe spoke unto the Rashei HaMattot (Heads of the Tribes) concerning the Bnei Yisroel saying, This is the thing which Hashem hath commanded: 
If an ish vow a neder unto Hashem, or swear a shevu'ah (oath) to bind his nefesh with an issar (negative vow, prohibition), he shall not break his devar, he shall do according to all that proceedeth out of his mouth. 
If an isha also vow a neder unto Hashem, and bind herself by an issar, being in her bais avi in her youth; 
And her av hear her neder, and her issar wherewith she hath bound her nefesh, and her av says nothing to her, then all her nedarim shall stand, and every issar wherewith she hath bound her nefesh shall stand. 
But if her av disallow her in the yom that he heareth, not any of her nedarim, or of her issurim (negative vows, prohibitions) wherewith she hath bound her nefesh, shall stand; and Hashem shall forgive her, because her av forbade her. 
And if she had at all an ish, when she made nedarim or utterance of her lips, wherewith she bound her nefesh; 
And her ish heard it, and said nothing to her in the yom that he heard it, then her nedarim shall stand, and her issurim wherewith she bound her nefesh shall stand. 
But if her ish forbade her on the yom that he heard it, then he shall nullify her neder which she vowed, and that which she uttered with her lips, wherewith she bound her nefesh; and Hashem shall forgive her. 
But every neder of an almanah, and of a gerushah (divorced woman), wherewith she have bound her nefesh, shall stand against her. 
And if she vowed in her bais ish, or bound her nefesh by an issar with a shevuah, 
And her ish heard it, and said nothing to her, and forbade her not, then all her nedarim shall stand, and every issar wherewith she bound her nefesh shall stand. 
But if her ish hath utterly nullified them on the yom he heard them, then whatsoever proceeded out of her lips concerning her nedarim, or concerning the issar of her nefesh, shall not stand; her ish hath nullified them; and Hashem shall forgive her. 
Every neder, and every shevuat issar to afflict the nefesh, her ish may let it stand, or her ish may let it have a hafarah. 
But if her ish say nothing to her from yom to yom, then he will have let stand all her nedarim or all her issurim, which are upon her; he will have let them stand, because he said nothing to her in the yom that he heard them. 
But if he shall revoke them after that he hath heard them, then nasa (he shall bear) her avon. 
These are the chukkim, which Hashem commanded Moshe, between an ish and his isha, between the av and his bat, being yet in her youth in her bais avi. 
