BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 14.
And Kol HaEdah lifted up their voice, and cried; and HaAm wept that night. 
And Kol Bnei Yisroel murmured against Moshe and against Aharon: and the Kol HaEdah said unto them, If only we had died in Eretz Mitzrayim! Or if only we had died in this midbar! 
And why hath Hashem brought us unto this land, to fall by the cherev, that nasheinu (our wives) and our children should be as plunder? Were it not better for us to go back unto Mitzrayim? 
And they said one to another, Let us make a Rosh (Leader), and let us go back unto Mitzrayim. 
Then Moshe and Aharon fell on their faces before Kol Kehal Adat Bnei Yisroel. 
And Yehoshua ben Nun, and Kalev ben Yephunneh, which were of them that explored HaAretz, tore their clothes: 
And they spoke unto Kol Adat Bnei Yisroel, saying, HaAretz, which we passed through to explore it, is a tovah haaretz me'od me'od. 
If Hashem delight in us, then He will bring us into this land, and give it us; a land zavat cholov udevash. 
Only rebel not ye against Hashem, neither fear ye the Am HaAretz; for they are lachmeinu (our bread): their protection is departed from them, and Hashem is with us: fear them not. 
But Kol HaEdah talked of stoning them with avanim. And the Kavod Hashem appeared in the Ohel Mo'ed before Kol Bnei Yisroel. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, How long will this people treat Me with contempt? And how long will it be until they believe in Me, for all the otot which I have performed among them? 
I will strike them down with dever (pestilence), and disinherit them, and will make of thee a greater nation and mightier than they. 
And Moshe said unto Hashem, Then the Egyptians shall hear it, (for Thou broughtest up this people in Thy ko'ach might from among them;) 
And they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land; for they have heard that Thou Hashem art among this people, that Thou Hashem art seen eye to eye, and that Thy Anan standeth over them, and that Thou goest before them, by day in an Ammud Anan, and in an Ammud Eish by night. 
Now if Thou shalt kill all this people as one man, then the Goyim which have heard the fame of Thee will speak, saying, 
Because Hashem was not able to bring this people into HaAretz which He promised them by oath, therefore He hath slaughtered (shachat) them in the midbar. 
And now, I beseech thee, let the Ko'ach Adonoi be great, according as Thou hast spoken, saying, 
Hashem is slow of anger, and of rav chesed, forgiving avon and peysha, and by no means exonerating the guilty, visiting the avon of the avot upon the banim unto the third and fourth generation. 
Selach (forgive!), I beseech thee, the avon of this people according unto the greatness of Thy chesed, just as Thou hast forgiven this people, from Mitzrayim even until now. 
And Hashem said, I have pardoned according to thy word: 
But as surely as I live, Kol HaAretz (all the Earth) shall be filled with the Kavod Hashem. 
Because all those men which have seen My kavod, and My otot (miraculous signs), which I performed in Mitzrayim and in the midbar, and have tested Me now these ten times, and have not paid heed to My voice; 
Surely they shall not see HaAretz which I swore unto their avot, neither shall any of them that treated Me with contempt see it: 
But Avdi Kalev, because he hath a ruach acheret in him, and hath followed after Me fully, him will I bring into HaAretz whereinto he went; and his zera shall inherit it. 
(Now the Amaleki and the Kena'ani dwelt in the valley.) Tomorrow turn and get you into the midbar by the way of the Yam Suf. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe and unto Aharon, saying, 
How long shall I bear with this Edah Hara'ah, which murmur against Me? I have heard the murmurings of the Bnei Yisroel, which they murmur against Me. 
Say unto them, As truly as I live, saith Hashem, as ye have spoken in Mine ears, so will I do to you: 
Your corpses shall fall in this midbar; and all that were numbered of you, according to your entire mispar (number, census), from twenty years old and upward which have murmured against Me. 
Not one of you shall come into HaAretz, concerning which I swore to make you dwell therein, except for Kalev ben Yephunneh, and Yehoshua ben Nun. 
But your little ones, which ye said would be plunder, them will I bring in, and they shall know HaAretz which ye have rejected. 
But as for you, your corpses, they shall fall in this midbar. 
And your banim shall wander in the midbar arba'im shanah, and bear your whoredoms, until the last of your corpses lies in the midbar. 
After the number of the days in which ye explored HaAretz, even arba'im, each day for a year, shall ye bear your iniquities, even arba'im shanah, and ye shall know My Tenu'a (Opposition). 
I, Hashem, have spoken, I will surely do it unto this Kol HaEdah, that are gathered together against Me: in this midbar they shall come to an end, and there they shall die. 
And the anashim, which Moshe sent to spy out the land, who returned, and made Kol HaEdah to murmur against him, the ones spreading a dibbah (bad report, slander) about HaAretz, 
Even those anashim that did bring up the evil report of HaAretz, died by the maggefah before Hashem. 
But Yehoshua ben Nun, and Kalev ben Yephunneh survived of the anashim that went to explore HaAretz. 
And Moshe told these sayings unto Kol Bnei Yisroel: and HaAm mourned greatly. 
And they rose up early in the boker, and went up into the height of the hill country, saying, Behold, we are here, and will go up unto the place which Hashem hath promised: for we have sinned. 
And Moshe said, Why now do ye transgress the utterance of Hashem? This will not succeed. 
Go not up, for Hashem is not among you; that ye be not struck down before your enemies. 
For the Amaleki and the Kena'ani are there before you, and ye shall fall by the cherev: because ye are turned away from Hashem, therefore Hashem will not be with you. 
But they presumed to go up unto the ridge of the mountain: nevertheless the Aron Brit Hashem, and Moshe, departed not out of the machaneh. 
Then the Amaleki came down, and the Kena'ani which dwelt in that hill country, and struck them down, and put them to rout, even unto Chormah. 
