2 Timotiyos.
Chapter 4.
I solemnly charge you before Hashem and Moshiach Yehoshua, the imminent Shofet of the living and dead, and by the Bi'as HaMoshiach and His Malchut: 
Attend to the hatafah (preaching) of the Dvar Hashem. Be ready in season, out of season, expose, rebuke, encourage, with all long suffering and hora'ah (teaching). 
For there will be a time when sound charedi (orthodox) hora'ah they will not tolerate, but according to their ta'avot they will accumulate morim to tickle their ears. 
And from HaEmes of Hashem they will turn their ear away shmad and to aggadah they will be turned aside. 
But, you, exercise shlitah atzmi (self-control) in all things, suffer hardship, do the work of a mevaser of the Besuras HaGeulah, fully carry out your avodas kodesh ministry of kiruv rechokim (bringing near the far away ones). 
For already I am being poured out, and the time of my avekfor (departure), has come. 
The milchemet tzedek (war of righteousness) I have fought, the course I have finished, the emunah I have been shomer over. 
Henceforth, there is laid up for me the keter hatzedakah (crown of righteousness) which Adoneinu, the Shofet Tzedek, will give to me in HaYom HaHu, and not only to me, but also to all the ones who are ohavei Bi'as HaMoshiach. 
Have zerizut (diligence) to come to me quickly. 
For Demas deserted me. Having loved the Olam Hazeh, he departed for Thessalonika; Crescens, to Galatia; Titos, to Dalmatia. 
Lukas alone is with me. Get Markos and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for avodas hakodesh. 
Now Tychicus I sent to Ephesus. 
When you come, bring the cloak which I left behind in Troas with Carpus, and the megillos, especially the parchments. 
Alexander the coppersmith did ra'ot rabbot (much evil) to me; Adonoi will repay him L'ISH K'MA'ASEIHU (to each as his deeds). 
You also watch out for him, because he greatly opposed our message. 
At my first hitstaddekut (defense), no one came to be with me, but all forsook me. May it not be counted against them. 
But Adoneinu stood with me, and empowered me, that through me the hachrazah (proclamation, kerygma) of the Besuras HaGeulah might be fully preached and all the Nations might hear it. And I was rescued out of the mouth of the lion. 
Hashem will rescue me from every evil work and thus will bring me safely into his Malchut HaShomayim. Lo haKavod l'olam va'ed. Omein. 
Drishat Shalom to Prisca and Aquila and the bais of Onesiphorus. 
Erastus remained in Corinth, but Trophimus, ailing, I left behind in Miletus. 
Make haste to come before winter. Drishat Shalom to you from Eubulus and Pudens and Linus, Claudia, and all the Achim b'Moshiach. 
Hashem be with your neshamah. Chen v'Chesed Hashem be with you.
