Philippians.
Chapter 2.
If, therefore, there is any idud (encouragement) in Moshiach, if any nechamah (comfort) of ahavah (love), if any deveykus (attachment to G-d) in the Messianic chavrusashaft (association) of the Ruach Hakodesh, if any warmth of affection and rachamanut (compassion, mercy), 
Then make my simcha (joy) shleimah (complete) by having the same lev, the same ahavah, being an agudah association with one neshamah, thinking the same machshavot (thoughts), 
Doing nothing according to anochiyut(selfishness) nor according to empty ga'avah (conceit, haughtiness, arrogance), but in anavah (humility), fergin (graciously grant) each other esteem above yourselves. 
Let each of you talmidim look after not only your own interests, but also the best interests of others. 
Let this mind be in you which was also in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua, 
Who, though existing in the demut of the mode of being of Elohim, nevertheless Moshiach did not regard being equal with G-d as a thing to be seized, 
But poured out and emptied himself, taking the demut of the mode of being of an eved, and was born in the likeness of Bnei Adam, and having been found in appearance as an Adam, 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach humbled himself and took the path of shiflut (lowliness), unto mishma'at(obedience) even unto death, and that, a death on HaEtz. 
Therefore, also Hashem exalted Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, and gave to him haShem above every name, 
That at haShem of Yehoshua, KOL BERECH (every knee) will bow, of beings b'Shomayim and ba'Aretz and mitachat la'Aretz (in the world below), 
And KOL LASHON(every tongue) shall make hoda'ah (confession) with an Ani Ma'amin that is an open and public admission that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua (Yeshua) is Adoneinu, to the kavod of Elohim Avinu. 
Therefore, Chaverim, just as you have always had mishma'at(obedience) concerning me, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own Yeshu'ah (Salvation) B'YIR'AH (with fear) and BIRA'DAH “with trembling”. 
For Hashem is the one working in you, both to will and to work according to His chafetz (good pleasure of His will). 
Do all things without murmurings and madon, 
That you may be innocent and without michshol of blame, bnei haElohim TAMIM U'MUM(unblemished and unspotted) in the midst of a DOR IKKESH UFETALTOL (warped and crooked generation), among whom you shine as the ZOHAR in the Olam Hazeh, 
Holding fast the Dvar HaChayyim. This is so that I will have reason for glorying on the Yom HaMoshiach, that I neither ran nor labored L'TOHU (in vain). 
And, indeed, if my neshamah is to be poured out as a nesekh (libation wine) offering upon the korban (sacrifice) of the avodas kodesh (kohenʼs service, ministry) of your emunah, I have simcha, rejoicing together with you all. 
And in the same way also you have simcha, rejoicing together with me. 
I have tikvah b'Adoneinu Yehoshua to send Timotiyos to you soon, that I also may be cheered up in the da'as of the things concerning you. 
For I have no one like-minded who will emesdik (genuinely) care for your spiritual welfare. 
All of them are seeking their own interest, not those of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
But of the proven mamashus (real worth) of Timotiyos you have da'as, because as a ben with his abba, Timotiyos served with me in the Besuras HaGeulah. 
Therefore, I have tikvah to send him, as soon as I see how things will go with me. 
But I have bitachon in Hashem that indeed I will come quickly. 
But I considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, the Ach b'Moshiach and fellow po'el (worker) and fellow chaiyal (soldier) of mine, but your shliach and keli kodesh (minister) of my need. 
I am sending him to you, because he was yearning after you all and was under zeiyar (extremely great) stress, because you heard that he was ill. 
For indeed he was ill, coming near to death, but Hashem had mercy on him not on him only but also on me, lest I should have agmat nefesh upon agmat nefesh. 
Therefore, I am all the more eager to dispatch him to you, in order that when you have seen him again, you may have simcha and I may have less agmat nefesh. 
Therefore, receive him in Adoneinu with all simcha and hold esteem for such klei kodesh (ministers), 
Because he came near to death on account of the avodas kodesh of Moshiach, performing an act of Messianic mesirat nefesh (whole-hearted devotion) having risked his life, that he might make up for the ministry to me that you could not give. 
