SHMUEL BAIS.
Chapter 9.
And Dovid said, Is there yet any that is left of the Bais Sha'ul, that I may show him chesed for the sake of Yonatan? 
And there was of the Bais Sha'ul an eved and shmo was Tziva. And when they had called him unto Dovid, HaMelech said unto him, Art thou Tziva? And he replied, Thy eved. 
And HaMelech said, Is there not yet any of the Bais Sha'ul, that I may show the chesed Elohim unto him? And Tziva said unto HaMelech, Yonatan hath yet a ben, which is nakheh (crippled, lame) raglayim (both feet). 
And HaMelech said unto him, Eifoh hu (where is he)? And Tziva said unto HaMelech, Hinei, he is in the Bais Machir Ben Ammi'el, in Lo-Devar. 
Then HaMelech Dovid sent, and had him brought out of the Bais Machir Ben Ammi'el, from Lo-Devar. 
Now when Mephivoshet Ben Yonatan Ben Sha'ul, was come unto Dovid, he fell on his face, and prostated himself. And Dovid said, Mephivoshet. And he answered, Hinei, thy eved! 
And Dovid said unto him, Fear not; for I will surely show thee chesed for sake of Yonatan Avicha, and will restore thee kol sadeh Sha'ul Avicha; and thou shalt eat lechem at my shulchan tamid. 
And he prostated himself, and said, What is thy eved, that thou shouldest look upon such a kelev hamet (dead dog) as I am? 
Then HaMelech called to Tziva na'ar Sha'ul, and said unto him, I have given unto thy adonʼs ben all that pertained to Sha'ul and to all his Bais. 
Thou therefore, and thy banim, and thy avadim, shall till the adamah for him, and thou shalt bring in the fruits, that thy adonʼs ben may have lechem to eat; but Mephivoshet the ben adoneicha shall eat lechem tamid at my shulchan. Now Tziva had fifteen banim and twenty avadim. 
Then said Tziva unto HaMelech, According to all that adoni HaMelech hath commanded his eved, so shall thy eved do. As for Mephivoshet, said HaMelech, he shall eat at my shulchan, as one of the Bnei HaMelech. 
And Mephivoshet had a ben katan, shmo Micha. And kol moshav Bais Tziva were avadim unto Mephivoshet. 
So Mephivoshet dwelt in Yerushalayim; for he did eat continually at the shulchan HaMelech; and was pisei'ach (crippled) in both his raglayim. 
