Moshiachʼs Letter through Yehuda, the Brother of the shliach Ya'akov, to the Brit Chadasha Kehillah.
Chapter 1.
From Yehuda, eved (servant) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua/Yeshua and brother of Ya'akov; To HaKeru'im (the Called Ones), beloved in Elokim HaAv and HaShemurim (the Guarded ones) for Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
Rachamim Hashem and Shalom Hashem and Ahavas Hashem to you abundantly! 
Chaverim, although I was very eager to write to you an iggeret hakodesh concerning the Geulah (Redemption) we share, it suddenly became necessary to write you an urgent appeal to fight for the Emunah (Faith, the Emunah of the true Dat HaYehudit), which was once for all time handed over and transmitted to the Kedoshim. 
For certain men, anshei resha (men of wickedness), written down long ago for this harsha'ah (condemnation), have infiltrated our ranks, men twisting the Chen v'Chesed HaElokeinu into a license for sensual self-indulgence and denying our only Ribboneinu and Adoneinu Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
Now I wish to remind you, though you are fully informed, that Hashem, Who once saved a people from Eretz Mitzrayim (Egypt), afterwards destroyed every Apikoros not having Emunah (Faith). 
And you have da'as about the malachim (angels), not being content to keep their positions of Memshalah (Rule, Dominion), having deserted their own station, these malachim Hashem has kept under sharsherot (chains) oif eibik (forever), under choshech for the Mishpat HaYom HaGadol, the Judgment of the Great Day. 
As S'dom and Amora and the cities around them, in a doime (similar) manner to these, indulging in gilui arayot (sexual immorality) against the course of nature and turning aside and going after alien flesh, are set forth to lie in public view as a mofet (example), undergoing the onesh of Eish Olam(Eternal Fire). 
Likewise, indeed, these “certain men,” 1:4, these dreamers, on the one hand, pollute the basar (flesh); on the other hand, they do not recognize HaMemshalah (rule) of glorious heavenly beings; instead, they speak lashon hora with Chillul Hashem railing against them. 
By contrast, Mikha'el the Sar HaMalachim, when he took issue with HaSatan and disputed about the geviyyat Moshe(body of Moses), did not presume to pronounce a slanderous judgment against HaSatan, but said, “Hashem rebuke you!” 
But, on the one hand, these men slander whatever they do not understand; on the other hand, what they do have binah of instinctively, like unreasoning animals, by these things they are destroyed. 
Oy to them! Because they walked in the Derech Kayin and to the Toyus Bil'am(Error of Balaam) they surrendered for revach (gain), and in the mered (rebellion) of Korach against HaMemshalah they were destroyed! 
These men are hidden reefs moored at your seudas (agape-feasts), feasting with you without yires-hakoved, shepherding themselves, waterless clouds being carried away by winds, autumn trees without fruit, twice dead, torn up from their shorashim (roots), 
Wild waves of the sea, foaming up their ma'asim hara'im (evil deeds), wandering kokhavim (stars) for whom the shvartz gloom of choshech has been reserved oif eibik (forever). 
But also it was about these men that Chanokh, in the seventh generation from Adam, prophesied, saying, “Hinei, Adonoi comes with His ten thousands of malachim, 
For the purpose of bringing all to Mishpat and for the purpose of proving guilty every neshamah of all of its deeds done without yires-hakoved and of all the harsh things chote'im (sinners) without yires-hakoved spoke against Him.” 
These men are malcontents and fault-finders, walking according to their ta'avot (lusts); their mouth speaks arrogant things, flattering for the tzil (purpose) of financial advantage. 
But you, Chaverim, keep in mind the predictions of the Shlichim of Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua, 
Because they were telling you that at Acharit HaYamim (the End of Days), there will be leitzim(scoffers) walking according to their ta'avot (lusts) without yires-hakoved. 
These men are the ones causing division, worldly men, not having the Ruach Hakodesh. 
But you, Chaverim, build yourselves up on what is kodesh kodeshim (most holy) of yours, your Emunah(Faith), davening in the Ruach Hakodesh. 
Keep yourselves in the Ahavas Hashem, awaiting the rachamim of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua unto Chayyei Olam. 
To those who are wavering, show rachamim; others, deliver, snatching them out of the Eish. 
On others, have rachamim mixed with yires-hakoved, hating even the undergarment defiled by corrupt human nature. 
Now to the One who is able to stand shomer over you, to make you moineia (prevented) from falling, and to set you unblemished in the presence of his Shekhinah, with sasson rav (much rejoicing), 
To HaElohim HaYachid Moshieinu (to the only G-d our Savior), through Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua, be HaKavod (Glory) and HaGedulah (Greatness) and HaMemshalah (Rule) and HaGevurah (Might) Mei-Olam V'ad Atah V'ad Olemei Olamim (before all time, now, and forever.) Omein.
