DIVREY HAYAMIM ALEF.
Chapter 25.
Moreover Dovid and the sarim of the tzava separated for avodah of the Bnei Asaph, and of Heman, and of Yedutun, who should prophesy with kinnorot, with nevalim, and with cymbals; and the number of the workmen according to their avodah (service) was; 
Of the Bnei Asaph; Zakkur, and Yosef, and Netanyah, and Asarelah, the Bnei Asaph under the hand of Asaph, which prophesied according to the order of HaMelech. 
Of Yedutun, the Bnei Yedutun: Gedalyahu, and Tzeri, and Yeshayahu, Chashavyahu, and Mattityahu, six, under the hands of their av Yedutun, who prophesied with a kinnor, to give thanks and to praise Hashem. 
Of Heman, the Bnei Heman: Bukiyahu, Matanyahu, Uzziel, Shevuel, and Yerimot, Chananyah, Chanani, Eliatah, Giddalti, and Romamti-Ezer, Yoshbekashah, Maloti, Hotir, and Machazi'ot; 
All these were the banim Heman the chozer (seer) of HaMelech in the devarim of Elohim, to lift up the keren. And HaElohim gave to Heman fourteen banim and three banot. 
All these were under the hands of their av for shir in the Beis Hashem, with cymbals, nevalim, and kinnorot, for avodas Beis HaElohim, under the support of HaMelech to Asaph, Yedutun, and Heman. 
So the number of them, with their brethren that were trained in the shir Hashem(music, songs of Hashem), even all that were skilled, was two hundred fourscore and eight. 
And they cast goralot, shift against shift, katon as well as gadol, the meiven as well as the talmid (student). 
Now the first goral which was for Asaph fell to Yosef; the second to Gedalyahu, who with his brethren and banim were 12; 
The third to Zakkur, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The fourth to Yitzri, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The fifth to Netanyahu, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The sixth to Bukiyahu, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The seventh to Yesarelah, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The eighth to Yeshayahu, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The ninth to Matanyahu, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The tenth to Shime'i, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The eleventh to Azare'el, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The twelfth to Chashavyah, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The thirteenth to Shuva'el, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The fourteenth to Mattityahu, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The fifteenth to Yeremot, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The sixteenth to Chananyahu, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The seventeenth to Yoshbekashah, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The eighteenth to Chanani, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The nineteenth to Maloti, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The twentieth to Eliyatah, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The one and twentieth to Hotir, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The two and twentieth to Giddalti, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The three and twentieth to Machazi'ot, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12; 
The four and twentieth to Romamti-Ezer, he, his banim, and his brethren, were 12. 
