1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 4.
Lemaskana (finally), Achim b'Moshiach, we ask and exhort you in Adoneinu Yehoshua, in order that, just as from us Moshiachʼs Shlichim you received as authoritative halachic tradition, as the Messianic teaching to be followed how it is necessary for you to be fier zich (comport oneself) in your derech (way of life) and to please Hashem (just as you in fact are doing), so you should abound more and more. 
For you have da'as what mitzvot (commandments) we gave you through Moshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua. 
For this is the ratzon Hashem(the will of G-d), your kedushah (holiness), your consecration, that you abstain from zenut (fornication), 
That each one of you have da'as of how to control your own k'li (vessel) in kedushah and kavod, 
Not in the passion of ta'avah (evil desire, lust) like Goyim who do not have da'as of Hashem; 
That no man commit peysha and take advantage of one of his Achim b'Moshiach in this sexual matter, because Hashem is the Nokem (Avenger) concerning all these things, just as also we told you before and warned you. 
For as far as our bechirah (election) is concerned, Hashem did not summon us for tu'ma (uncleanness) but in kedushah (holiness). 
Therefore, the one rejecting this mitzvah (commandment) does not reject Bnei Adam but Hashem who gives to you His Ruach Hakodesh. 
Concerning the matter of ahavah shel achvah (brotherly love), you have no need that we write you, for you yourselves are limudei Elohim (taught of G-d) to have ahavah (agape) one for another. 
For indeed this you do toward all the Achim b'Moshiach in all of Macedonia. But in this we exhort you, Chaverim, to abound more and more. 
And have as your ambition to lead a quiet life of shalom bayis, and to mind your own business, and to have a parnasah, working with your own hands, according to the mitzvot (commandments) we gave you. 
The tachlis (purpose) is that the way you fier zich (comport oneself) in your derech (way of life) be conducted properly toward outsiders and that you might not be nitzrach (needy). 
We do not want you to lack da'as, Chaverim, concerning those who have “fallen asleep.” The purpose is that you not have agmat nefesh (grief) like the rest, who do not have tikvah (hope). 
For, if we have an Ani Ma'amin belief that Yehoshua had his histalkus and then stood up alive again in the Techiyas HaMoshiach from HaMesim, even so, Hashem will bring with him those who have fallen asleep through Yehoshua. 
For this we say to you by the Dvar Hashem, that we who are alive and have been left behind until the Bi'as (Coming, Parousia of) Moshiach Adoneinu, may in no way be kodem (preceding) those who have fallen asleep. 
For Adoneinu Himself, at the signal, at the bat kol of the Sar HaMalachim (the Archangel), and at the shofar blast of Hashem, shall come down from Shomayim, and the Mesim in Moshiach shall stand up alive in the Techiyas HaMesim first. 
Then, we who are alive and who have been left behind simultaneously with them shall be snatched up in the ananim (clouds) to meet Adoneinu in the air. And so always with Adoneinu we shall be. 
Therefore, give chozek (strength) and speak divrei chizzuk (words of encouragement), comforting one another with these words. 
