DIVREY HAYAMIM BAIS.
Chapter 6.
Then said Sh'lomo, Hashem hath said that He would dwell in a dark cloud. 
But I have built Thee a lofty Beis, even a place for Thee to dwell olamim. 
And HaMelech turned his face, v'yevarech at kol Kehal Yisroel, and all the Kehal Yisroel stood. 
And he said, Baruch Hashem Elohei Yisroel, Who hath with His hands fulfilled that which He spoke with His mouth to Dovid Avi, saying, 
Since HaYom when I brought forth Ami out of Eretz Mitzrayim I chose no city among all the Shivtei Yisroel to build a Bais in, that Shmi might be there; neither chose I any ish to be a Nagid over Ami Yisroel, 
But I chose Yerushalayim, that Shmi might be there; and chose Dovid to be over Ami Yisroel. 
Now it was in the levav Dovid Avi to build a Bais for the Shem of Hashem Elohei Yisroel. 
But Hashem said to Dovid Avi, Because it was in levavcha to build a Bais for Shmi, thou didst well in that it was in levavcha. 
Nevertheless thou shalt not build HaBeis; but bincha (your Son) which shall come forth out of thy loins, he shall build HaBeis for Shmi. 
Hashem therefore hath performed His Devar that He hath spoken; for I am risen up after Dovid Avi, and I sit on the kisse Yisroel, just as Hashem promised, and I built HaBeis for the Shem of Hashem Elohei Yisroel. 
And in it have I put the Aron, wherein is the Brit Hashem that He cut with the Bnei Yisroel. 
And he stood before the Mizbe'ach Hashem in front kol Kehal Yisroel, and spread forth his hands; 
For Sh'lomo had made a kiyyor nechoshet (bronze platform) five cubits long, and five cubits wide, and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of the Azarah, and upon it he stood, and knelt down upon his knees before kol Kehal Yisroel, and spread forth his hands toward Shomayim. 
And said, Hashem Elohei Yisroel, ein kmocha Elohim (there is no G-d like Thee) in Shomayim, nor in Ha'aretz; shomer HaBrit, who showest chesed unto Thy avadim, that walk before Thee with all their hearts. 
Thou which has been shomer over Thy eved Dovid Avi over that which Thou hast promised him; and spoke with Thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it with Thine hand, as it is this day. 
Now therefore, Hashem Elohei Yisroel, be shomer over Dovid Avi to keep that which Thou hast promised him, saying, There shall not fail thee an ish in My sight to sit upon the Kisse Yisroel; if only Banecha are shomer over their way to walk in My torah, as thou hast walked before Me. 
Now then, Hashem Elohei Yisroel, let Thy Davar come true, which Thou hast spoken unto Thy eved Dovid. 
But will Elohim really dwell with HaAdam on ha'aretz? Hinei, Shomayim and the Shmei HaShomayim cannot contain Thee; how much less this Beis which I built! 
Yet give attention to the tefillah of Thy eved, and to his techinnah (supplication), O Hashem Elohai, to pay heed unto the cry and the tefillah which Thy eved prayeth before Thee; 
That Thine eyes may be open toward this Beis yomam valailah, toward the makom (place) whereof Thou hast said that Thou wouldest put Shimcha there; to pay heed unto the tefillah which Thy eved prayeth toward this makom. 
Pay heed therefore unto the tachanunei Avdecha (suppplications of Thy servant), and of Thy people Yisroel, which they shall daven toward this place; hear Thou from Thy dwelling place, even from Shomayim; and when Thou hearest, salachta (forgive). 
If an ish sin against his neighbor, and he is made to swear under oath and he swears an oath before Thine Mizbe'ach in this Beis, 
Then hear Thou from Shomayim, and act, and judge Thy avadim, by requiting the guilty, by recompensing his way upon his own rosh; and by justifying the tzaddik, by giving him according to his tzedakah. 
And if thy people Yisroel be defeated before the oyev (enemy), because they have sinned against Thee; and shall return and confess Shmecha, and pray and make techinnah before Thee in this Beis, 
Then hear Thou from Shomayim, and forgive the sin of Thy people Yisroel, and bring them back to HaAdamah which Thou gave to them and to Avoteichem. 
When Shomayim is shut up, and there is no matar (rain), because they have sinned against Thee; yet if they pray toward this place, and confess Shmecha, and turn from their sin, when Thou dost afflict them; 
Then hear Thou from Shomayim, and forgive the sin of Thy avadim, and of Thy people Yisroel, when Thou hast taught them the Derech HaTovah, wherein they should walk; and send matar upon Thy land, which Thou hast given unto Thy people for a nachalah. 
If there be ra'av (hunger, famine) in the land, if there be dever, if there be blight, or mildew, locust, or grass-hopper; if their enemies besiege them in the land of their cities; whatsoever nega or machalah there be, 
Then what tefillah or what techinnah soever shall be made of kol ha'adam, or of all Thy people Yisroel, when every one shall know his own nega and his own pain, and shall spread forth his hands in this Beis, 
Then hear Thou from Shomayim Thy dwelling place, and forgive, and render unto every man according unto all his ways, whose lev Thou knowest; (for Thou only knowest the hearts of the Bnei HaAdam), 
That they may fear Thee, to walk in Thy ways, so long as they live in HaAdamah which Thou gavest unto Avoteinu. 
Also concerning the nokhri, who is not of Thy people Yisroel, but is come from a far country for the sake of Shimcha Hagadol, Thy yad hachazakeh, and Thy zero'a stretched out; if they come and pray toward this Beis, 
Then hear Thou from Shomayim, even from Thy dwelling place, and do according to all that the nokhri calleth for to Thee, that kol Amei Ha'aretz may know Shmecha, and fear Thee, as doth Thy people Yisroel, and may know that this Beis which I have built is called by Shimcha. 
If Thy people go out to milchamah against their enemies by the derech that Thou shalt send them, and they pray unto Thee toward this city which Thou hast chosen, and the Beis which I have built for Shmecha, 
Then hear Thou from Shomayim their tefillah and their techinnah, and uphold their mishpat. 
If they sin against Thee, (for there is no adam which sinneth not), and Thou be angry with them, and deliver them over before their enemies, and they carry them away captive unto an Eretz rechokah or kerovah, 
Yet if they change in their heart in the land where they are carried captive, and repent and supplicate unto Thee in the land of their captivity, saying, Chatanu (we have sinned), he'evnu (we have done wrong), and rashanu (we acted wickedly); 
If they return to Thee with all their lev and with all their nefesh in the land of their captivity, where they have carried them captive, and pray toward their land, which Thou gavest unto Avotam, and toward HaIr which Thou hast chosen, and toward the Beis which I have built for Thy Shem, 
Then hear Thou from Shomayim, even from Thy dwelling place, their tefillah and their techinnah, and uphold their mishpat, and forgive Thy people which have sinned against Thee. 
Now, Elohai, may Thine eyes be open, and let Thine ears be attentive unto the tefillah that is davened in this place. 
Now therefore arise, Hashem Elohim, into Thy resting place, Thou, and the Aron of Thy might; let Thy Kohanim, Hashem Elohim, be clothed with Teshu'ah, and let Thy Chasidim rejoice in goodness. 
Hashem Elohim, turn not away the face of Thine Moshiach. Remember the Chasdei Dovid Avdecha. 
