BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 17.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe saying, 
Speak unto El'azar ben Aharon HaKohen that he take up the fire pans out of the burning, and scatter thou the eish yonder; for they are set apart as kodesh. 
The fire pans of these chatta'im against their own nefashot, let them make them hammered-out sheets for a covering of the Mizbe'ach: for they offered them before Hashem, therefore they became kadosh; and they shall be an ot unto the Bnei Yisroel. 
And El'azar HaKohen took the bronze fire pans, wherewith they that were burned had offered; and they made hammered-out sheets for an overlay of the Mizbe'ach: 
To be a memorial reminder unto the Bnei Yisroel, that no zar, which is not of the zera Aharon, encroach to offer ketoret before Hashem; that he be not as Korach, and as his edah, as Hashem said to him by the hand of Moshe. 
But the next day Kol Adat Bnei Yisroel murmured against Moshe and against Aharon, saying, Ye have killed the Am Hashem. 
And it came to pass, when HaEdah was gathered against Moshe and against Aharon, that they looked toward the Ohel Mo'ed; and, hinei, the Anan covered it, and the Kavod Hashem appeared. 
And Moshe and Aharon came before the Ohel Mo'ed. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe saying, 
Get you away from among this edah, that I may consume them as in a moment. And they fell upon their faces. 
And Moshe said unto Aharon, Take a fire pan, and put eish therein from off the Mizbe'ach, and put ketoret, and go quickly unto HaEdah, and make kapporah for them; for there is Ketzef (Wrath) gone out from Hashem; the plague is begun. 
And Aharon took as Moshe commanded, and ran into the midst of the Kahal; and, hinei, the plague was begun among HaAm: and he offered ketoret, and made kapporah for HaAm. 
And he stood between the mesim and the chayyim; and the plague was stopped. 
Now they that were the mesim in the maggefah (plague) were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, in addition to those who were mesim by reason of Korach. 
And Aharon returned unto Moshe unto the entrance of the Ohel Mo'ed; and the plague was stayed. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, and take of every one of them a rod according to the Bais Av, of all their Nasiim according to the Bais of their Avot twelve rods; write thou every manʼs shem upon his matteh (rod, staff). 
And thou shalt write shem Aharon upon the rod of Levi; for one rod shall be for the Rosh of the Bais of their Avot. 
And thou shalt lay them up in the Ohel Mo'ed before HaEdut, where I will meet with you there. 
And it shall come to pass, that the manʼs rod, whom I shall choose, shall sprout; and I will rid Myself of the murmurings of the Bnei Yisroel, whereby they murmur against you. 
And Moshe spoke unto the Bnei Yisroel, and every one of their Nasiim gave him a rod apiece, for each nasi one, according to their Bais Avot, even twelve rods; and the rod of Aharon was among their rods. 
And Moshe laid up the rods before Hashem in the Ohel HaEdut. 
And it came to pass, that the next day Moshe entered into the Ohel HaEdut; and, hinei, the rod of Aharon for the Bais Levi was budded, and brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds. 
And Moshe brought out all the rods from before Hashem unto Kol Bnei Yisroel; and they looked, and took every man his rod. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Bring Aharonʼs rod again before HaEdut, to be kept for an ot (sign) against the rebels; and thou shalt quite put an end to their murmurings against Me, that they die not. 
And Moshe did so; as Hashem commanded him, so did he. 
And the Bnei Yisroel spoke unto Moshe, saying, See, we die, we perish, we will all perish. 
Whoever even encroaches upon the Mishkan Hashem shall die. Shall we be consumed with dying? 
