SHEMOT.
Chapter 3.
Now Moshe was ro'eh (shepherding) the tzon of Yitro his khoten (father-in-law), the kohen Midyan; and he led the tzon to the backside of the midbar, and came to the Har HaElohim, even to Chorev. 
And the Malach Hashem appeared unto him in a flame of eish out of the midst of a bush; and he looked, and, hinei, the bush burned with eish, and the bush was not consumed. 
And Moshe thought, I will now turn aside, and see this mareh hagadol, why the bush is not burned up. 
And when Hashem saw that he turned aside to see, Elohim called out unto him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moshe, Moshe. And he said, Hineni. 
And He said, Draw not nearer here; put off thy na'alayim (sandals) from off thy raglayim, for hamakom whereon thou standest is admat kodesh. 
Moreover He said, I am Elohei Avicha, Elohei Avraham, Elohei Yitzchak, and Elohei Ya'akov. And Moshe hid his face; for he was afraid to look upon HaElohim. 
And Hashem said, I have surely seen the oni ami (affliction of My people) which are in Mitzrayim, and have heard their cry by reason of their nogesim (taskmasters); for I know their makhovim (sufferings); 
And I am come down to deliver them out of the yad Mitzrayim, and to bring them up out of that land unto an eretz tovah, a spacious eretz zavat cholov udevash; unto the place of the Kena'ani, and the Chitti, and the Emori, and the Perizzi, and the Chivi, and the Yevusi. 
Now therefore, hinei, the cry of the Bnei Yisroel is come unto Me; and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppress them. 
Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth My people the Bnei Yisroel out of Mitzrayim. 
And Moshe said unto HaElohim, Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the Bnei Yisroel out of Mitzrayim? 
And He said, Certainly Eh-heh-yeh (I will be)  with thee; and this shall be haOt (the Sign) unto thee, that I have sent thee: when thou hast brought forth HaAm out of Mitzrayim, ye shall serve HaElohim upon this Har. 
And Moshe said unto HaElohim, Hinei, when I come unto the Bnei Yisroel, and shall say unto them, Elohei Avoteichem hath sent me unto you; and they shall say to me, What is Shmo? what shall I say unto them? 
And Elohim said unto Moshe, Eh-heh-yeh ashair Eh-heh-yeh (I AM WHO I AM); and He said, Thus shalt thou say unto the Bnei Yisroel, EH-HEH-YEH (I AM) hath sent me unto you. 
And Elohim said moreover unto Moshe, Thus shalt thou say unto Bnei Yisroel: Hashem, Elohei Avoteichem, Elohei Avraham, Elohei Yitzchak, and Elohei Ya'akov, hath sent me unto you: this is Shemi l'olam, and this is My remembrance unto all generations. 
Go, and gather the Ziknei Yisroel together, and say unto them, Hashem Elohei Avoteichem, Elohei Avraham, Yitzchak, and Ya'akov, appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited/inspected you, and seen that which is done to you in Mitzrayim; 
And I have said, I will bring you up out of the Oni Mitzrayim unto the eretz Kena'ani, and the Chitti, and the Emori, and the Perizzi, and the Chivi, and the Yevusi unto eretz zavat cholov udevash. 
And they shall pay heed to thy voice; and thou shalt go, thou and the Ziknei Yisroel, unto Melech Mitzrayim, and ye shall say unto him, Hashem Elohei HaIvriyim hath met with us; and let us go, now, derech shloshet yamim into the midbar, that we may sacrifice to Hashem Eloheinu. 
And I have da'as that Melech Mitzrayim will not let you go, no, except by a yad chazakah. 
And I will stretch out My yad, and strike Mitzrayim with all My nifle'ot which I will do in the midst thereof; and after that he will let you go. 
And I will give this people chen in the sight of the Egyptians; and it shall come to pass, that, when ye go, ye shall not go empty-handed. 
But every isha shall borrow of her neighbor, and of her that sojourneth in her bais, jewels of kesef, and jewels of zahav, and clothing; and ye shall put them upon your banim, and upon your banot; so ye shall plunder the Egyptians. 
