TEHILLIM.
Chapter 89.
(A maskil of Eitan the Ezrachi) 
I will sing of the mercies of Hashem olam; with my mouth will I make known Thy emunah (faithfulness) to dor vador. 
For I have said: Chesed shall be built up olam; Thy emunah (faithfulness) shalt Thou establish in Shomayim itself. 
I have made a Brit with My Bechir (Chosen one), I have sworn unto Dovid Avdi, 
Thy Zera will I establish ad olam, and build up thy kisse to dor vador. Selah 
And Shomayim shall praise Thy wonders, O Hashem; Thy emunah (faithfulness) also in the Kahal Kedoshim. 
For who in the heavens can be compared unto Hashem? Who among the bnei elim can be likened unto Hashem? 
G-d is greatly to be feared in the sod Kedoshim (council of the holy ones), and is awesome over all them that are around Him. 
Hashem Elohei Tzva'os, who is like Thee, O Mighty One, Hashem? Thy emunah also surrounds Thee! 
Thou rulest the raging of the yam; when the waves thereof arise, Thou stillest them. 
Thou hast broken Rachav in pieces, as one that is slain; Thou hast scattered Thine oyevim with Thy strong Zero'a. 
Shomayim are Thine, Eretz also is Thine; as for the tevel (world) and the fulness thereof, Thou hast founded them. 
The tzafon (north) and the yamin (south) Thou hast created them; Tavor and Chermon shall sing for joy in Thy Shem. 
Thou hast a mighty Zero'a; strong is Thy Yad, and exalted is Thy Yamin. 
Tzedek and mishpat are the foundation of Thy kisse; chesed and emes shall go before Thy face. 
Ashrei is the people that know the joyful sound; they shall walk, Hashem, in the ohr (light) of Thy countenance. 
In Thy Shem shall they rejoice kol hayom; and in Thy tzedakah shall they be exalted. 
For Thou art the tiferet (splendor, glory) of their strength; and in Thy favor our keren shall be exalted. 
For Hashem is our mogen; and the Kadosh Yisroel is Malkeinu (our king). 
Then Thou spoke in chazon (vision) to Thy chasidim, and saidst, I have laid ezer (help) upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the people. 
I have found Dovid Avdi; with My shemen kadosh (holy oil) meshachtiv (I anointed him); 
With whom My yad shall be established; Mine zero'a also shall strengthen him. 
The oyev (enemy) shall not ensnare him; nor the ben avlah (son of wickedness) afflict him. 
And I will beat down his tzar before his face, and strike down them that hate him. 
But My emunah (faithfulness) and My chesed shall be with him; and in My Shem shall his keren be exalted. 
I will set his yad also upon the yam, and his yamin upon the neharot (rivers). 
He shall cry out unto Me, Thou art Avi, Eli, and the Tzur of my Yeshu'ah (salvation). 
Also I will make him My Bechor, elyon (most exalted) of the Malkhei Aretz. 
My chesed will I be shomer over for him forevermore, and My Brit shall stand unfailing with him. 
His zera also will I make to endure forever, and his kisse as the days of Shomayim. 
If his banim forsake My torah, walk not in My mishpatim, 
If they violate My chukkot, and are not shomer over My mitzvot; 
Then will I visit their peysha with shevet (rod), and their avon (iniquity) with stripes. 
Nevertheless My chesed will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer My emunah (faithfulness) to fail. 
My Brit will I not violate, nor alter the thing that is gone out of My lips. 
Once have I sworn by My Kodesh; I will not lie unto Dovid. 
His zera shall endure l'olam, and his kisse as the shemesh before Me. 
It shall be established olam as the yarei'ach, and as an ed ne'eman (a faithful witness) in the heavens. Selah 
But Thou hast cast off and abhorred, Thou hast been in wrath with Thine Moshiach. 
Thou hast made void the Brit of Thy eved; Thou hast profaned his nezer (diadem) to the ground. 
Thou hast broken down all his gederot (hedges); Thou hast brought his strongholds to ruin. 
All that pass by the derech plunder him; he is a cherpah (reproach) to his shchenim. 
Thou hast exalted the yamin of his adversaries; Thou hast made all his oyevim to rejoice. 
Thou hast also turned back the edge of his cherev, and hast not made him to stand in the milchamah. 
Thou hast made his glory to cease, and cast his kisse down to the ground. 
The days of his youth hast thou shortened; Thou hast covered him with bushah (shame). Selah 
How long, Hashem? Wilt Thou hide Thyself lanetzach (forever)? Shall Thy wrath burn like eish? 
Remember how short my time is. For what vanity hast Thou created kol bnei adam? 
What gever is he that liveth, and shall not see mavet? Shall he deliver his nefesh from the yad Sheol (power of Sheol)? Selah 
Adonoi, where are Thy former lovingkindnesses, which Thou didst swear unto Dovid in Thy emunah? 
Remember, Adonoi, the reproach of Thy avadim; how I do bear in my kheyk (bosom) the reproach of all rabbim amim (many peoples); 
Wherewith Thine oyevim have reproached, Hashem; wherewith they have reproached the ikkevot (footsteps) of Thine Moshiach. 
Baruch Hashem l'olam. Omein and Omein. 
