Titos.
Chapter 3.
Remind them to be V'NISHMA (obedient, and we will obey!) to sarim (rulers), to shiltonim (authorities), to be submissive, to be obedient, ready for every ma'aseh tov. 
Speak lashon hora of no one, be not ohev riv (quarrelsome). Be eidel (gentle), displaying anavah (meekness) to kol Bnei Adam. 
For all of us were once without da'as, sorrarim (disobedient), being led astray, avadim (slaves) of ta'avot and to various ta'anugot (pleasures) of the Olam Hazeh, spending our lives in eyvah(enmity) and kina (jealousy), hated, and hating one another. 
But when the Chen v'Chesed and the ahavas Hashem Moshieinu appeared to Bnei Adam, 
Not by tzidkateynu (our righteousness) in ma'asim tovim which is to our zchus (merit), but according to His rachamim, He granted us Yeshu'at Eloheynu through the mikveh mayim ruchani of rebirth and hitchadshut of the Ruach Hakodesh, 
Which Hashem poured out on us richly through Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua Moshieinu, 
That, having been made YITZDAK IM HASHEM by the Chen v'Chesed of Hashem, we might become yoreshim (heirs) in the tikvah HaChayyei Olam. 
This dvar Emes is trustworthy. And I counsel you to strongly affirm the divrei torah I am handing on to you, that those who have become ma'aminim in Hashem may be shomer for ma'asim tovim. These things to Bnei Adam are good, tov me'od. 
But pilpul minutiae controversies and toldot and quarrels and fights about the Torah, avoid, for they are unprofitable hevel. 
An ish hacholek (a man of division, a divisive man) after one or two warnings, avoid, 
Having da'as that such a man is perverted and sinful, bringing harsha'ah (condemnation) upon himself. 
When I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, try to come to me at Nicopolis, for there I have decided to spend the choref (winter). 
Do your utmost to speed Zenas, the Ben Torah (scholar), and Apollos on their way, that nothing for them may be lacking. 
Let anshei adateynu (the men of our community) learn to be concerned about ma'asim tovim so as to supply urgent needs, that they may not be lo poreh (unfruitful). 
Drishat Shalom from all the ones with me. Drishat Shalom to those who have ahavah for us in the emunah. Chen v'Chesed Hashem to all of you.
