IYOV.
Chapter 6.
But Iyov answered and said, 
Oh that my ka'as (vexation) were throughly weighed, and my calamity laid in the scales together! 
For now it would be heavier than the chol of the seas; therefore my words are impetuous. 
For the khitzim (arrows) of Shaddai are in me, the poison whereof drinketh my ruach; the terrors of Eloah do set themselves in array against me. 
Doth the pereh (wild donkey) bray when he hath desheh? Or loweth the ox over his fodder? 
Can that which is tasteless be eaten without melach? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg? 
The things that my nefesh refused to touch are like my loathsome lechem. 
Who will grant that I might have my she'elah (request); oh that Eloah would grant me my tikveh! 
Even that it would please Eloah to crush me; that He would let loose His yad, and cut me off! 
Then should I yet have nechamah (consolation); yea, I would exult in chilah (pain); let him not spare; for I have not concealed the imrei Kadosh (words of the Holy One). 
What is my koach, that I should wait? And what is mine end, that I should make patient my nefesh? 
Is my koach the koach of avanim? Or is my basar bronze? 
Is it that my help is not within me? And is tushiyyah (success) driven from me? 
To him that is afflicted, chesed should be shown from his friend; otherwise, he forsaketh the fear of Shaddai. 
Achai (my brethren) have dealt deceitfully as a wadi, and as the torrents of wadis they vanish away; 
Which are blackish muddy by reason of the kerakh (ice), and wherein the sheleg (snow) is melted. 
What season they become warm, they vanish; when it is hot, they disappear from their makom. 
The paths of their derech wind about; they go up to tohu, and perish. 
The caravans of Tema looked for them; the halichot (traveling companies) of Sheva hoped for them. 
They were disappointed because of their bitachon; they come there and are confounded. 
For now ye are become such; ye see my chatat (casting down), and are afraid. 
Did I say, Bring unto me? Or, Give a present for me of your ko'ach (power, wealth)? 
Or, Deliver me from the yad tzar (hand of the enemy, oppressor)? Or, Redeem me with a ransom from the yad of the tyrants? 
Teach me, and I will hold my tongue, and cause me to have binah wherein I have erred. 
How forcible are the imrei yosher (words of rectitude)! But what doth your hokhiach (reproof) reprove? 
Do ye think to reprove words? The words of one in despair, which are as ruach? 
Yea, ye cast lots for the yatom, and over your friend ye barter. 
Now therefore be pleased to look upon me; for it is evident unto you if in me there is kazav (falsity). 
Turn, now, let there be no iniquity; yea, turn again; at issue is my tzedek (righteousness). 
Is there iniquity on my leshon? Cannot my palate discern havvot (perverse things)? 
