1 Corinthians.
Chapter 4.
So let a man consider us as Gabba'im of Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach and mefakkechim (stewards, supervisors) of the sodot (mysteries) of Hashem. 
Moreover, it is sought in mefakkechim that one be found that has ne'emanut (faithfulness). 
But to me it is a very small thing that I be brought, as it were, before your Bet Din for you to play dayanim (religious judges) judging me, or that I am judged by Bnei Adam on their merely human Yom HaDin; I do not even act as Dayan (Judge of a Rabbinical Court) of myself. 
I am aware of nothing against myself, but not in this have I been yitzdak (justified); it is the L-rd who is my Shofet (Judge). 
Therefore, do not judge anything before the time, until the Bias Adoneinu, who both will bring to Ohr (Light) the hidden things of the choshech (darkness) and manifest the motives of the levavot. And then the tehillah (praise) each one will receive will be from Hashem. 
Now these things, Achim b'Moshiach, I made a dimyon (comparison) applied with respect to myself and Apollos for your sake, that through us you may learn not to go beyond what things have been written, lest you are puffed up as ba'alei ga'avah (conceited, haughty persons) in favor of one or against the other. 
For who makes you so distinguished? And, by the way, what do you have which you did not receive? And if indeed you were given it, why this ga'avah, this boastfulness as if you had not received it? 
Already you have so much, already you ascended to osher (riches) and without us Shlichim! You became melechim (kings); I would that you did indeed become melechim that also we might reign as melechim with you. 
For, omein, I believe that Hashem has exhibited us, the Shlichim of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, as last in the program, condemned to death, because, like wretches under a mishpat mavet (death sentence), we became displayed in the arena for the eyes of the Olam Hazeh, malachim as well as Bnei Adam. 
We are kesilim (fools) because of Moshiach, but you are chachamim in Moshiach; we are weak, but you are strong; you are treated with honor; we dishonor. 
Until the present sha'ah (hour) we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are beaten and homeless. 
And we have parnasah, toiling with our own hands; being reviled, we make a bracha; being persecuted, we endure it: 
Being defamed by loshon hora, we conciliate. We have become what the earth wants swept out the door, something considered trash the Olam Hazeh wants removed. 
The purpose of this iggeret is not to bring you under bushah (shame). I write these things as admonishing my beloved yeladim. 
For, though you may have in Moshiach morei derech numbering ten thousand, you have not many avot, for in Moshiach through the Besuras HaGeulah I became your abba. 
Therefore, I encourage you, imitate me. 
Because of this very thing, I sent Timotiyos to you who is my beni haahuv (beloved son) and ne'eman (faithful), trustworthy in Hashem, who will remind you of my derech baKodesh in Moshiach, even as I give shiurim everywhere in every kehillah. 
Now as to my coming to you, some were puffed up, 
But I will come shortly to you, im yirtzeh Hashem(if the L-rd wills), and I will find out not the speech of the ones having been puffed up but the ko'ach (power). 
For the Malchut Hashem depends not on the talk of the ish sefatayim (the eloquent speaker) but on ko'ach (power). 
What do you want? That I should come to you, so to speak, with an abbaʼs switch or in ahavah and an anavat ruach (a spirit of meekness)? 
