YESHAYAH.
Chapter 32.
See, a Melech shall reign in tzedek, and sarim shall rule in mishpat (justice). 
And an ish shall be as a sheltering hiding place from the ruach (wind), and a seter (refuge) from the tempest; as streams of mayim in a dry place, as the tzel (shadow) of a great rock in a weary land. 
And the eynayim of them that see shall no longer be closed, and the oznayim of them that hear shall pay heed. 
The levav also of the rash shall understand da'as, and the lashon of the stammerers shall be ready to speak plainly. 
The naval (foolish person) shall be no more called noble, nor the scoundrel said to be honorable. 
For the naval will speak foolishness, and his lev will work evil, to practise khonef (hypocrisy), and to utter to'ah (error, perversity) against Hashem, to leave unsatisfied the nefesh of the ra'av (hungry), and he will cause the drink of the tzameh (thirsty) to fail. 
The schemes also of the schemer are ra'im (evil ones); he deviseth zimmot (wicked schemes) to destroy the poor with words of sheker, even when the evyon (needy) speaketh mishpat (justly). 
But the noble maketh plans that are noble; and by noble things shall he stand. 
Rise up, ye nashim that are complacently at ease; hear my voice, ye banot at ease; give ozen unto my speech. 
Days and a shanah, then shall ye tremble, ye careless nashim; for the grape harvest shall fail, the harvest of fruit shall not come. 
Tremble, ye nashim that are complacently at ease; shake, ye complacent ones; strip you, and make you bare, and gird sackcloth upon your loins. 
They shall mournfully beat upon their breasts, for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful gefen (vine). 
Upon the admat Ami (land of My People) shall come up kotz (thorns) and briers; indeed, upon all the batim (houses) of joy in the city of merriment; 
Because the palaces shall be forsaken; the multitude of the Ir shall be abandoned; the citadel and stronghold shall be ruins ad olam, a delight of wild donkeys, a pasture of adarim (flocks); 
Until the Ruach be poured upon us from on high, and the midbar become a carmel (fruitful field), and the carmel become a ya'ar (forest). 
Then mishpat shall dwell in the midbar, and tzedakah live in the carmel. 
And the ma'aseh (work) of tzedakah (righteousness) shall be shalom; and the effect of tzedakah quietness and assurance ad olam (forever). 
And my people shall dwell in a naveh shalom (a habitation of peace) and in secure mishkenot (dwellings), and in quiet menuchot (resting places); 
When it shall hail, coming down on the ya'ar (forest); and the Ir shall be utterly brought down in a low place. 
Blessed are ye that sow beside all mayim, that send forth there the regel of the shor (ox) and the chamor (donkey). 
