DEVARIM.
Chapter 23.
An ish shall not take eshet aviv (his fatherʼs wife), nor uncover his fatherʼs robe. 
He that is wounded in the testicles, or hath a severed organ, shall not enter into the Kahal Hashem. 
A mamzer shall not enter into the Kahal Hashem; even to his tenth generation shall he not enter into the Kahal Hashem. 
An Amoni or Moavi shall not enter into the Kahal Hashem; even to their tenth generation shall they not enter into the Kahal Hashem ad olam; 
Because they met you not with lechem and with mayim in the way, when ye came forth out of Mitzrayim; and because they hired against thee Balaam ben Be'or from Petor in Aram Naharayim, to curse thee. 
Nevertheless Hashem Eloheicha would not give heed unto Balaam; but Hashem Eloheicha turned the kelalah into a brocha unto thee, because Hashem Eloheicha loved thee. 
Thou shalt not seek their shalom nor their tovat all thy yamim l'olam. 
Thou shalt not abhor an Edomi; for he is thy brother: thou shalt not abhor a Mitzri (an Egyptian); because thou wast a ger in his land. 
The banim that are begotten of them shall enter into the Kahal Hashem in their third generation. 
When the machaneh (camp) goeth forth against thine enemies, then be shomer over thee against every wicked thing. 
If there be among you any ish, that is not tahor (clean) by reason of a nocturnal occurrence, then shall he go outside the machaneh, he shall not come within the machaneh; 
But it shall be, when erev cometh on, he shall wash himself with mayim; and when the shemesh is down, he shall come into the machaneh again. 
Thou shalt have a place also outside the machaneh, whither thou shalt go forth outside; 
And thou shalt have a shovel in addition to thy weapon; and it shall be, when thou wilt relieve thyself outside, thou shalt dig therewith, and shalt turn back and cover that which cometh from thee: 
For Hashem Eloheicha walketh in the midst of thy machaneh, to deliver thee, and to give up thine enemies before thee; therefore shall thy machaneh be kadosh; that He see no ervat davar (shameful thing) in thee, and turn away from thee. 
Thou shalt not give up unto his adon the eved which is escaped from his adon unto thee: 
He shall dwell with thee, even among you, in that place which he shall choose in one of thy she'arim, where it pleases him best; thou shalt not oppress him. 
There shall be no kedeshah (ritual prostitute) of the banot Yisroel, nor a kadesh (sodomite ritual prostitute) of the bnei Yisroel. 
Thou shalt not bring the hire of a zonah, or the price of a kelev (male prostitute), into the Bais Hashem Eloheicha for any neder; for even both of these are to'avat Hashem Eloheicha. 
Thou shalt not lend upon neshekh (interest) to thy brother; neshekh of kesef, neshekh of okhel, neshekh of any thing that is lent upon neshekh; 
Unto a nokhri thou mayest lend upon neshekh; but unto thy brother thou shalt not lend upon neshekh; that Hashem Eloheicha may bless thee in all that thou settest thine hand to in ha'aretz whither thou goest to possess it. 
When thou shalt vow a neder unto Hashem Eloheicha, thou shalt not delay to pay it; for Hashem Eloheicha will surely require it of thee; and it would be chet (sin) in thee. 
But if thou shalt abstain from vowing, it shall be no chet in thee. 
That which is gone out of thy lips thou shalt be shomer over and perform; even a vow thou hast voluntarily vowed unto Hashem Eloheicha, which thou hast promised with thy mouth. 
When thou comest into thy neighborʼs kerem (vineyard), then thou mayest eat thy fill of grapes at thine own pleasure; but thou shalt not put any in thy vessel. 
When thou comest into the standing grain of thy neighbor, then thou mayest pluck the ears with thine yad; but thou shalt not use a sickle unto thy neighborʼs standing grain. 
