YECHEZKEL.
Chapter 11.
Moreover the Ruach lifted me up, and brought me unto the Sha'ar Beis Hashem hakadmoni (eastern gate of the Beis HaMikdash of Hashem), and hinei at the petach of the Sha'ar five and twenty ish; among whom I saw Ya'azanyah Ben Azur, and Pelatyahu Ben Benayahu, sarim of HaAm. 
Then said He unto me, Ben adam, these are the anashim that plot evil, and give atzat rah (evil counsel) in this ir, 
Which say, The end is not near; let us build batim (houses): this ir is the caldron, and we are the basar. 
Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O ben adam. 
And the Ruach Hashem fell upon me, and said unto me, Speak: Thus saith Hashem; Thus have ye said, O Bais Yisroel: for I know the things that come into your ruach, every one of them. 
Ye have multiplied your slain in this ir, and ye have filled the streets thereof with the slain. 
Therefore thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Your slain whom ye have placed in the midst of it, they are the basar, and this ir is the caldron; but I will bring you forth out of the midst of it. 
Ye have feared the cherev; and I will bring a cherev upon you, saith Adonoi Hashem. 
And I will bring you out of the midst thereof, and deliver you into the yad of zarim, and will execute shefatim (judgments) among you. 
Ye shall fall by the cherev; I will judge you at the border of Yisroel; and ye shall know that I am Hashem. 
This ir shall not be your caldron, neither shall ye be the basar in the midst thereof; but I will judge you at the border of Yisroel; 
And ye shall know that I am Hashem; for ye have not walked in My chukkot, neither executed My mishpatim, but have done after the mishpatim of the Goyim that are all around you. 
And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pelatyahu Ben Benayah died. Then I fell down upon my face, and cried out with a kol gadol, and said, Ah, Adonoi Hashem! Wilt Thou make a full end of the she'erit (remnant) Yisroel? 
Again the Devar Hashem came unto me, saying, 
Ben adam, thy brethren, even thy relatives, the anashim of thy geulah, and kol Bais Yisroel wholly, are those of whom the inhabitants of Yerushalayim have said, They have gone far from Hashem; unto us is this land given in possession. 
Therefore say, Thus saith Adonoi Hashem; Although I have cast them far off among the Goyim, and although I have scattered them among the countries, yet will I be to them as a mikdash me'at (little holy place) in the countries where they went. 
Therefore say, Thus saith Adonoi Hashem; I will even gather you from the nations, and assemble you out of the countries where ye have been scattered, and I will give you Eretz Yisroel. 
And they shall come there, and they shall remove all the shikkutzim thereof and all the to'avot (abominations) thereof from her. 
And I will give them a lev echad, and I will put a ruach chadashah (new regenerated spirit) within you; and I will remove the lev haeven (heart of stone) out of their basar, and will give them a lev basar; 
That they may walk in My chukkot, and be shomer over Mine mishpatim, and do them; and they shall be My people, and I will be their Elohim. 
But as for them whose lev walketh after the lev of their shikkutzim and their to'avot, I will repay their derech upon their own rosh, saith Adonoi Hashem. 
Then did the Keruvim lift up their wings, and the Ofanim (wheels) beside them; and the Kavod Elohei Yisroel was high above them. 
And the Kavod Hashem went up from the midst of the Ir, and stood upon the har which is on the east side of the ir. 
Afterward the Ruach lifted me up, and brought me in a mar'eh (vision) inspired by the Ruach Elohim into Kasdim (Chaldea, Babylon), to them of the Golus. So the mareh (vision) that I had seen went up from me. 
Then I spoke unto them of the Golus all the things that Hashem had showed me. 
