SHOFETIM.
Chapter 10.
And after Avimelech there arose to save Yisroel Tola ben Puah ben Dodo, an ish Yissakhar; and he dwelt in Shamir in har Ephrayim. 
And he judged Yisroel twenty and three shanah, and died, and was buried in Shamir. 
And after him arose Yair, a Gil'adi, and judged Yisroel twenty and two shanah. 
And he had shloshim banim that rode on shloshim donkeys, and they had shloshim towns, which are called Chavvot Yair unto this day, which are in Eretz Gil'ad. 
And Yair died, and was buried in Kamon. 
And the Bnei Yisroel did evil again in the sight of Hashem, and served Ba'alim, and Ashtarot, and the elohei Aram, and the elohei Tzidon, and the elohei Moav, and the elohei Bnei Ammon, and the elohei Pelishtim, and forsook Hashem, and served Him not. 
And the Af Hashem was hot against Yisroel, and He sold them into the yad Pelishtim (Philistines), and into the yad Bnei Ammon. 
And that year they oppressed and persecuted the Bnei Yisroel; eighteen shanah, all the Bnei Yisroel that were on the other side of the Yarden in the Eretz Emori, which is in Gil'ad. 
Moreover the Bnei Ammon passed over Yarden to fight also against Yehudah, and against Binyamin, and against the Bais Ephrayim; so that Yisroel was greatly distressed. 
And the Bnei Yisroel cried unto Hashem, saying, We have sinned against Thee, both because we have forsaken Eloheinu, and also served Ba'alim. 
And Hashem said unto the Bnei Yisroel, Did not I deliver you from Mitzrayim, and from Emori, from the Bnei Ammon, and from the Pelishtim (Philistines)? 
The Tzidonim also, and the Amalek, and the Ma'on, did oppress you; and ye cried out to Me, and I saved you out of their yad. 
Yet ye have forsaken Me, and served elohim acherim; so I will not continue to save you. 
Go and cry unto the elohim which ye have chosen; let them deliver you in the time of your tribulation. 
And the Bnei Yisroel said unto Hashem, Chatanu (we have sinned); do Thou unto us whatsoever seemeth hatov unto Thee; only save us, now, this day. 
And they put away the elohei hanekhar (strange, foreign g-ds) from among them, and served Hashem; and His nefesh was troubled with the amal Yisroel (misery of Yisroel). 
Then the Bnei Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gil'ad. And the Bnei Yisroel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mitzpah. 
And HaAm and the Sarei Gil'ad said one to another, What man is he that will begin to fight against the Bnei Ammon? He shall be Rosh over all the inhabitants of Gil'ad. 
