YECHEZKEL.
Chapter 27.
The Davar Hashem came again unto me, saying: 
Now, thou ben adam, take up a kinah (lamentation) for Tzor (Tyre); 
And say unto Tzor (Tyre), O thou that dwell at the entrance of the yam, which art a merchant of the peoples for many coastlands, Thus saith Adonoi Hashem; O Tzor (Tyre), thou hast said, I am perfect in beauty. 
Thy borders are in the midst of the seas, thy bonim (builders) have perfected thy beauty. 
They have built all thy ship plank boards of beroshim (juniper) of Senir; they have taken cedars from Levanon to make masts for thee. 
Of the oaks of Bashan have they made thine oars; thy hull of pines inlaid with ivory, they made from that brought out of the isles of Kittim (Cyprus). 
Fine linen with embroidered work from Mitzrayim was that which thou spreadest forth to be thy nes (sail); blue and purple from the coasts of Elishah was that which covered thee. 
The inhabitants of Tzidon and Arvad were thy oarsmen; thy chachamim, O Tzor (Tyre), that were in thee, were thy helmsmen. 
The elders of Geval and the chachamim thereof were in thee thy caulkers to caulk thy seams; all the oniyyot of the yam with their oarsmen were in thee to market thy merchandise. 
They of Paras (Persia) and of Lud (Lydia) and of Put (Libya) were in thine army, thy anshei hamilchamah; they hanged the mogen and kova (helmet) in thee; they set forth thy splendor. 
The Bnei Arvad with thine army were upon thy chomot (walls) all around, and the men of Gammad were in thy migdalim (towers); they hung their shields upon thy chomot (walls) all around; they have made thy beauty perfect. 
Tarshish was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of all kind of riches; with kesef, barzel (iron), bedil (tin), and oferet (lead), they traded for thy goods. 
Yavan, Tuval, and Meshech, they were thy merchants; they traded the nefesh adam and kelim (vessels) of nechoshet for thy merchandise. 
They of the Bais Togarmah traded for thy wares with susim and parash and peradim (mules). 
The Bnei Dedan were thy merchants; many coastlands were the market of thine yad; they brought thee for a payment karnot (tusks) of shen (ivory) and ebony. 
Aram (Syria) was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of the goods of thy making; they gave thee for thy wares emeralds, purple, and embroidered work, and fine linen, and coral, and rubies. 
Yehudah, and Eretz Yisroel, they were thy merchants; they traded for thy merchandise chittim (wheat) of Minnit, and balsam oil, and devash, and shemen, and balm. 
Damascus was thy merchant in the multitude of the wares of thy making, for the multitude of all riches; in the yayin of Chelbon, and white wool. 
Vedan also and Yavan (Greece) provided for your wares with fine yarn; wrought iron, cassia, and cane, were among thy merchandise. 
Dedan was thy merchant in saddle blankets for riding. 
Arabia, and all the nasi'im of Kedar, they traded with thee in lambs, and rams, and goats; in these were they thy merchants. 
The merchants of Sheva and Ra'amah, they were thy merchants; they traded as peddlers with choicest spices, and with all kinds of even yekarah (precious stones), and zahav. 
Charan, and Kanneh, and Eden, the merchants of Sheva, Ashur (Assyria), and Kilmad, were thy merchants. 
These were thy merchants in choice things, in purple clothes, and embroidered work, and in chests of multicolored apparel, bound with chavalim (cords) and cedar boxed in thy marketplace. 
The oniyyot of Tarshish were carriers of thy merchandise; and thou wast filled, and made very glorious in the midst of the yamim (seas). 
Thy oarsmen have brought thee into mayim rabbim; the east wind hath broken thee in the midst of the yamim (seas). 
Thy riches, and thy wares, thy merchandise, thy mariners, and thy sailors, thy caulkers, and the dealers in thy merchandise, and all thy anshei hamilchamah, that are in thee, and in all thy kahal (company) which is in the midst of thee, shall fall into the midst of the yamim (seas) in the day of thy shipwreck. 
The migroshot (open pasturelands) shall shake at the sound of the cry of thy seamen. 
And all that handle the oar, the mariners, and all the sailors of the yam, shall come down from their oniyyot, they shall stand upon the shore; 
And shall cause their kol (voice) to be heard because of thee, and shall cry bitterly, and shall cast up aphar (dust) upon their heads, they shall roll themselves in the ashes; 
And they shall make themselves utterly bald for thee, and gird themselves with sackcloth and shall weep for thee mar nefesh and bitter mourning. 
And in their wailing they shall take up a kinah (lamentation) for thee, and lament over thee, saying: What city is like Tzor, destroyed in the midst of the yam? 
When thy wares went forth by sea, thou filledst many people; thou didst enrich the melachim of ha'aretz with the multitude of thy riches and of thy merchandise. 
In the time when thou shalt be broken by the yamim (seas) in the depths of the mayim, thy merchandise and all thy kahal (company) in the midst of thee shall fall. 
All the inhabitants of the coastlands shall be astonished at thee, and their melachim shall be very afraid, they shall be troubled in their countenance. 
The socharim (merchants) among the peoples shall hiss at thee; thou shalt be a horror, and ad olam (forever) thou shalt be no more. 
