SHEMOT.
Chapter 8.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, Say unto Aharon, Stretch forth thine yad with thy matteh over the streams, over the rivers, and ponds, and cause tzefardaya to come up upon Eretz Mitzrayim. 
And Aharon stretched out his yad over the waters of Mitzrayim; and the tzefardaya came up, and covered Eretz Mitzrayim. 
And the chartumim did so with their secret lore, and brought up tzefardaya upon Eretz Mitzrayim. 
Then Pharaoh called for Moshe and Aharon, and said, Entreat Hashem, that He may take away the tzefardaya from me, and from My people; and I will let HaAm go, that they may do sacrifice unto Hashem. 
And Moshe said unto Pharaoh, Please thyself over me: when shall I entreat for thee, and for thy avadim, and for thy people, to destroy the tzefardaya from thee and thy batim (houses), that they may remain in the Nile only? 
And he said, Tomorrow. And he said, Be it according to thy word: that thou mayest know that there is none like unto Hashem Eloheinu. 
And the tzefardaya shall depart from thee, from thy batim, from thy avadim, and from thy people; they shall remain in the Nile only. 
And Moshe and Aharon went out from Pharaoh: and Moshe cried unto Hashem because of the tzefardaya which He had brought against Pharaoh. 
And Hashem did according to the word of Moshe; and the tzefardaya died out of the batim (houses), out of the khatzerot, and out of the sadot. 
And they gathered them together upon heaps; and the land stank. 
But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his lev, and paid heed not unto them; as Hashem had said. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Say unto Aharon, Stretch out thy matteh, and smite the aphar ha'aretz, that it may become kinim throughout kol Eretz Mitzrayim. 
And they did so; for Aharon stretched out his yad with his matteh, and smote the aphar ha'aretz, and it became kinim in adam, and in behemah; all the aphar ha'aretz became kinim throughout kol Eretz Mitzrayim. 
And the chartumim did so with their secret lore to bring forth kinim, but they could not: so there were kinim upon adam, and upon behemah. 
Then the chartumim said unto Pharaoh, This is the Etzba Elohim (Finger of G-d): and the lev Pharaoh was hardened, and he paid heed not unto them; as Hashem had said. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Rise up early in the boker, and stand before Pharaoh; hinei, he cometh forth to the mayim; and say unto him, Thus saith Hashem, Let My people go, that they may serve Me. 
Else, if thou wilt not let My people go, hineni, I will send swarms of arov upon thee, and upon thy avadim, and upon thy people, and into thy batim (houses); and the batim (houses) of the Egyptians shall be full of swarms of arov, and also the ground whereon they are. 
And I will deal differently in that day with Eretz Goshen, in which My people dwell, that no swarms of arov shall be there; to the end thou mayest know that I am Hashem in the midst of the earth. 
And I will put a distinction between My people and thy people; tomorrow shall this Ot be. 
And Hashem did so; there came a grievous swarm of arov into the bais Pharaoh, into batim of his avadim, into kol Eretz Mitzrayim; the land was corrupted from the swarm of arov. 
And Pharaoh called for Moshe, for Aharon, and said, Go ye, sacrifice to Eloheichem in the land. 
And Moshe said, It is not meet so to do; for we shall sacrifice the to'avot Egyptians to Hashem Eloheinu; lo, shall we sacrifice the to'avot Egyptians before their eyes, and will they not stone us? 
We will go derech shloshet yamim into the midbar, and sacrifice to Hashem Eloheinu, as He shall command us. 
And Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to Hashem Eloheichem in the midbar; only ye shall not go very far away; entreat for me. 
And Moshe said, Hinei, I go out from thee, and I will entreat Hashem that the swarms of arov may depart from Pharaoh, from his avadim, and from his people, tomorrow; but let not Pharaoh deal deceitfully anymore in not letting the people go to sacrifice to Hashem. 
And Moshe went out from Pharaoh, and entreated Hashem. 
And Hashem did according to the devar Moshe; and He removed the swarms of arov from Pharaoh, from his avadim, from his people; there remained not one. 
And Pharaoh hardened his lev at this time also, neither would he let the people go. 
