DEVARIM.
Chapter 7.
When Hashem Eloheicha shall bring thee into ha'aretz whither thou goest to possess it, and hath cast out Goyim rabbim before thee, the Chitti, and the Girgashi, and the Emori, and the Kena'ani, and the Perizzi, and the Chivi, and the Yevusi, shivah Goyim greater and mightier than thou; 
And when Hashem Eloheicha shall deliver them before thee; thou shalt strike them down, and utterly destroy them; thou shalt make no Brit with them, nor show mercy unto them; 
Neither shalt thou make marriages with them; thy bat thou shalt not give unto his ben, nor his bat shalt thou take unto thy ben. 
For they will turn away thy ben from following Me, that they may serve elohim acherim; so will the anger of Hashem be kindled against you, and destroy thee suddenly. 
But thus shall ye deal with them; ye shall destroy their mizbechot, and break down their matzeivot (pillars), and cut down their Asherah, and burn their peselim with eish. 
For thou art an Am Kadosh unto Hashem Eloheicha; Hashem Eloheicha hath chosen thee to be an Am Segullah (Treasured People) unto Himself, above all people that are upon the face of ha'adamah. 
Hashem did not set His love upon you, nor choose you, because ye were more in number than any people; for ye were the fewest of kol ha'amim; 
But because of Ahavat Hashem (because Hashem loved you), and because He would be shomer over haShevu'ah (the Oath) which He had sworn unto Avoteichem, hath Hashem brought you out with a yad chazakah, and redeemed you out of the bais avadim, from the hand of Pharaoh Melech Mitzrayim. 
Know therefore that Hashem Eloheicha, He is HaElohim, the El HaNe'eman, which is shomer HaBrit and hath chesed with them that love Him and are shomer mitzvot to a thousand generations; 
And repayeth them that are the soneh (hater, enemy) of Him to their face, to destroy them; He will not be slack to him that hateth Him, He will repay him to his face. 
Thou shalt therefore be shomer mitzvot, and keep the chukkim, and the mishpatim, which I command thee today, to do them. 
Wherefore it shall come to pass, if ye give heed to these mishpatim, and are shomer, and do them, that Hashem Eloheicha shall be shomer over the Brit unto thee and the chesed which He swore unto Avoteicha; 
And He will love thee, and bless thee, and multiply thee; He will also bless the pri of thy womb, and the pri of thy land, thy grain, and thy wine, and thine oil, the increase of thy cattle, and the flocks of thy sheep, in adamah which He swore unto Avoteicha to give thee. 
Baruch shalt thou be more than kol ha'amim; there shall not be male or female barren among you, or among your cattle. 
And Hashem will take away from thee every choli (disease), and will put none of the evil diseases of Mitzrayim, which thou knowest, upon thee; but will lay them upon all them that hate thee. 
And thou shalt consume kol haAm which Hashem Eloheicha shall deliver thee; thine eye shall have no pity upon them; neither shalt thou serve eloheihem (their g-ds); for that will be a snare unto thee. 
If thou shalt say in thine lev, These Goyim are more than I; how can I dispossess them? 
Thou shalt not be afraid of them; but shalt well remember what Hashem Eloheicha did unto Pharaoh, and unto all Mitzrayim; 
The great temptations which thine eyes saw, and the otot, and the mofetim, and the yad chazakah, and the stretched out zero'a, whereby Hashem Eloheicha brought thee out; so shall Hashem Eloheicha do unto kol ha'amim of whom thou art afraid. 
Moreover Hashem Eloheicha will send the hornet swarm among them, until they that are left, and hide themselves from thee, be destroyed. 
Thou shalt not be afraid of them; for Hashem Eloheicha is among you, an El Gadol v'Norah. 
And Hashem Eloheicha will put out those Goyim before thee me'at me'at (little by little); thou mayest not consume them at once, lest the beasts of the sadeh increase upon thee. 
But Hashem Eloheicha shall deliver them unto thee, and shall destroy them with a mighty destruction, until they be shmad. 
And He shall deliver their melachim into thine hand, and thou shalt destroy their shem from under Shomayim; there shall no man be able to stand before thee, until thou have destroyed them. 
The peselim of eloheihem shall ye burn with eish; thou shalt not desire the kesef or zahav that is on them, nor take it unto thee, lest thou be snared therein; for it is a to'evah (abomination) to Hashem Eloheicha. 
Neither shalt thou bring a to'evah (abomination) into thine bais, lest thou be a cherem like it; but thou shalt utterly detest it, and thou shalt utterly abhor it; for it is a cherem. 
