BERESHIS.
Chapter 10.
Now these are the toldot of the Bnei Noach: Shem, Cham, and Yephet; and unto them were banim born after the mabbul (flood). 
The Bnei Yephet: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Yavan, and Tuval, and Meshech, and Tiras. 
And the Bnei Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Riphat, and Togarmah. 
And the Bnei Yavan: Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. 
By these were the coastlands of the Goyim divided in their lands; every one after his leshon, after their mishpechot, in their Goyim. 
And the Bnei Cham: Cush, and Mitzrayim, and Put, and Kena'an. 
And the Bnei Cush: Seva, and Chavilah, and Savtah, and Ra'amah, and Savtecha; and the Bnei Raamah: Sheva, and Dedan. 
And Cush fathered Nimrod; he began to be a gibbor in ha'aretz. 
He was a gibbor, a hunter before Hashem; therefore it is said, like Nimrod the gibbor, the hunter before Hashem. 
And the beginning of his kingdom was Bavel, and Erech, and Akkad, and Calneh, in Eretz Shinar. 
Out of that land he went forth to Ashur, and built Nineveh, and Rechovot-Ir, and Kelach, 
And Resen between Nineveh and Kelach; the same is haIr Hagedolah. 
And Mitzrayim fathered Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehavim, and Naphtuchim, 
And Patrusim, and Casluchim, out of whom came Pelishtim (Philistines), and Caphtorim. 
And Kena'an fathered Tzidon his bechor, and Chet, 
And the Yevusi, and the Emori, and the Girgashi, 
And the Chivi, and the Arki, and the Sini, 
And the Arvadi, and the Tzemari, and the Chamati; and afterward were the mishpechot haKena'ani spread abroad. 
And the boundary of the Kena'ani was from Tzidon, as thou comest to Gerar, unto Azah (Gaza); as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Amora (Gomorrah), and Admah, and Tzevoyim, even unto Lesha. 
These are the Bnei Cham, after their mishpechot, after their leshonot, in their territories, and in their Goyim. 
Also unto Shem avi kol Bnei Ever, and the older brother of Yephet, even to him were offspring born. 
The Bnei Shem: Eilam, and Ashur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram. 
And Bnei Aram: Utz, and Chul, and Geter, and Mash. 
And Arpachshad fathered Shelach; and Shelach fathered Ever. 
And unto Ever were born two banim: the shem of one was Peleg; for in his days was ha'aretz divided; and his brotherʼs shem was Yoktan. 
And Yoktan fathered Almodad, and Sheleph, and Chatzarmavet, and Yerach, 
And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
And Oval, and Avimael, and Sheva, 
And Ophir, and Chavilah, and Yovav; all these were the Bnei Yoktan. 
And their moshav (dwelling) was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar har hakedem. 
These are the Bnei Shem, after their mishpechot, according to their leshonot, in their territories, after their Goyim. 
These are the mishpechot of the Bnei Noach, after their toldot, in their Goyim; and by these were the Goyim divided/separated in ha'aretz after the mabbul. 
