1 Kefa.
Chapter 5.
Therefore, I give this word of chozek to the Zekenim (Elders) among you, I, as a fellow Zaken (Elder) and as an Eidus (Witness) of the sevalot (sufferings) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, and also as a partaker of the Kavod about to be unveiled: 
Exercise the avodas hakodesh ministry of Ro'eh (Shepherd) on behalf of the Eder Hashem(Flock of G-d) among you, serving as Mashgichim Ruchaniyim (Spiritual Overseers), not unwillingly, for the sake of dishonest gelt, but willingly, eagerly, in conformity with Hashem, 
Not as domineering the ones assigned by Hashem to your oversight, but being a mofet (example) for the tzon (flock). 
After the Sar HaRo'im (Chief of Shepherds) has been manifested, you will receive the unfading Ateret HaKavod (Crown of Glory). 
Likewise, bochrim (young men), be submissive to the Zekenim (Elders) and clothe yourselves in the kaftan of anavah (humility) toward one another, because IM LALETZIM HU YALITZ V'LA'ANAYIM YITEN CHEN(Indeed Hashem scorns the scorners, but gives grace to the humble). 
Therefore, be humbled under the mighty hand of Hashem, that you may be exalted in due time. 
HASHLECH AL ADONOI Y'HAVECHA V'HU Y'CHALKELECHA(Cast your care on Hashem and He will sustain you), because Hashem cares and is concerned about you. 
Be shomer in zililut da'as (sober-mindedness). Your adversary HaSatan Samma'el, prowls around like a roaring arye (lion), seeking whom to swallow. 
Oppose him, firm in emunah, knowing that in the Olam Hazeh, the same Chevlei Moshiach are to be laid upon HaAchim b'Moshiach. 
Now the Elohei Kol Chen v'Chesed (the G-d of all Grace), the one having bestowed upon you the kri'ah (calling) into His eternal kavod in Moshiach Yehoshua, after you have suffered tzoros for a little while, will Himself restore, confirm, strengthen and establish you. 
Lo HaKavod V'HaOz L'Olemei Olamim. Omein. 
To you, through Sila HaAch HaNe'eman (the Faithful Brother in Moshiach), as such I regard him, I have written you briefly, a dvar chizzuk, encouraging you and giving edut (testimony) that this is the true Chen v'Chesed Hashem in which you stand. 
Drishat Shalom to you from your coequal Nivcharah (Chosen One), she in Bavel. Drishat Shalom also from Markos, beni. 
Greet one another with a neshikat ahavah (kiss of agape). Drishat Shalom to all of you, the ones in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach.
