HISGALUS.
Chapter 11.
And a measuring rod like a staff was given to me, saying, Come and measure the Beis Hamikdash of Hashem and the Mizbe'ach (altar) and the ones worshiping there. 
But do not measure the outer court of the Beis Hamikdash; leave that out, and measure it not, for it was given over to the Goyim, and the Ir HaKodesh they will trample upon arba'im and shenayim chodashim. 
And I will give to my Sh'ney HaEdim (Two Witnesses) and they will speak divrei haNevu'ah (words of prophecy) one thousand two hundred and sixty days, having been clothed in sakkim (sackcloth). 
These are the two olive trees and the two menorot standing before the Adon kol ha'aretz. 
And if anyone wants to harm them, eish (fire) comes out of their mouth and destroys their oyevim (enemies); and if anyone wants to harm them, it is necessary for him to be killed like this. 
These have the samchut (authority) to shut Shomayim, that no geshem (rain) may fall during the days of their nevu'ah (prophecy). And samchut (authority) they have over the waters to turn them into dahm and to strike ha'aretz with makkot (plagues) of every kind, as often as they want. 
And when they complete the edut (testimony) of them, the Chayyah (Beast, Anti-Moshiach) coming up from the Tehom (Abyss) will make war with them and will conquer them and will kill them. 
And the NEVELAH(corpse) of them will be on the rekhov (street) of the Ir Hagadol, which, spiritually, is called S'dom and Mitzrayim (Egypt), where also the Adon of them was pierced on the etz. 
And some of haummim (the peoples) and shevatim (tribes) and leshonot (languages) and Goyim (Nations) see the NEVELAH of them for shloshah and a half yamim and the NEVELAH of them they do not permit to be put into a kever (tomb). 
And the ones dwelling on ha'aretz (the earth) rejoice with great simcha (joy) over them and make merry and they will send matanot (gifts) to one another, because these two nevi'im (prophets) tormented the ones dwelling on ha'aretz (the earth). 
And after the shloshah (three) and a half yamim (days), a Ruach of Chayyim from Hashem entered into them, and they stood up upon their feet, and pachad gadol (great terror) fell upon the ones seeing them. 
And they heard a kol gadol (loud voice) out of Shomayim saying to them, “Come up here!” And they went up into Shomayim in the anan (cloud), and their oyevim (enemies) saw them. 
And in that hour occurred a great earthquake and the tenth part of the city fell and there were killed in the earthquake shivat alafim (seven thousand), and the rest became afraid and gave kavod (glory) to Elohei HaShomayim. 
The second woe passed. Hinei, the third woe is coming quickly. 
And the malach hashevi'i (the seventh angel) sounded his shofar. And there were kolot gedolim (loud voices) in Shomayim, saying, The Malchut of the Olam Hazeh became the Malchut of Adoneinu and of His Moshiach, and He will reign l'Olemei Olamim. 
And the esrim v'arba'ah Zekenim(twenty-four Elders), sitting on their kisot before Hashem, fell on their faces and worshiped Hashem, 
Saying, “Modim Anachnu (We give thanks), Adonoi Elokeinu, El Shaddai, the One who is and the One who was, because you have taken your oz gadol (great power) and reigned. 
And the Goyim (Nations) raged. And your charon af (burning wrath) came, and the zman (time) for the Mesim to be judged and for giving the sachar (reward) to your avadim (servants), the nevi'im (prophets) and the Kedoshim and the ones fearing ha-Shem of you, the ketanim (small) and the gedolim (great), and for destroying the ones destroying ha'aretz (the earth).” 
And the Heikhal of Hashem was opened in Shomayim, and the Aron HaBrit (Ark of the Covenant) of Hashem was seen in the Heikhal of Hashem. And there were flashes of lightning and kolot (sounds) and thunders and an earthquake and great barad (hail). 
