BERESHIS.
Chapter 14.
And it came to pass in the yamim of Amraphel Melech Shinar, Aryoch Melech Ellasar, Kedorlaomer Melech Eilam, and Tidal Melech Goyim; 
That these made milchamah with Bera Melech Sodom, and with Birsha Melech Amora (Gomorrah), Shinav Melech Admah, and Shemever Melech Tzevoyim, and the Melech of Bela, which is Tzoar. 
All these were joined together in the Valley of Siddim which is the Yam HaMelach. 
Twelve shanah they served Kedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled. 
And in the fourteenth year came Kedorlaomer, and the melachim that were with him, and they defeated the Repha'im in Ashterot Karnayim, and the Zuzim in Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh-Kiryatayim, 
And the Chori in their Mt Se'ir, as far as Eil-Paran, which is near the midbar. 
And they turned, and came to Ein Mishpat, which is Kadesh, and conquered all the country of the Amaleki, and also the Emori, that dwelt in Chatzetzon-Tamar. 
And there went out the Melech Sodom, and the Melech Amora (Gomorrah), and the Melech Admah, and the Melech Tzevoyim, and the Melech Bela (that is, Tzoar); and they joined in milchamah with them in the Valley of Siddim; 
With Kedorlaomer Melech Eilam, and with Tidal Melech Goyim, and Amraphel Melech Shinar, and Aryoch Melech Ellasar; four melachim against five. 
And the Valley of Siddim was full of tar pits; and the Melech Sodom and Amora (Gomorrah) they fled, and fell there; and they that remained fled to the mountain. 
And they took all the possessions of Sodom and Amora (Gomorrah), and all their ochel, and went their way. 
And they took Lot, Avramʼs brotherʼs son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his possessions, and departed. 
And there came one that had escaped, and told Avram HaIvri; for he dwelt in Elonei Mamre the Emori, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner; and these were Ba'alei Brit Avram. 
And when Avram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed his trained men, born in his own bais, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued them as far as Dan. 
And he divided himself against them, he and his avadim, by lailah, and routed them, and pursued them as far as Chovah, which is on the left hand (north) of Damascus. 
And he recovered all the possessions, and also brought again his brother Lot, and his possessions, and the nashim also, and the people. 
And the Melech Sodom went out to meet him after his return from the defeat of Kedorlaomer, and of the melachim that were with him, at the Valley of Shaveh, which is the Valley of the King. 
And Malki-Tzedek Melech Shalem brought forth lechem and yayin and he was the kohen of El Elyon. 
And he blessed him, and said, Baruch Avram by El Elyon, Possessor of Shomayim va'Aretz; 
And baruch El Elyon, Who hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him ma'aser (tithe) of all. 
And the Melech Sodom said unto Avram, Give me the nefesh and keep the possessions for thyself. 
And Avram said to the Melech Sodom, I have lifted up mine hand unto Hashem, El Elyon Possessor of Shomayim va'Aretz, 
That I will not take from a thread even to the thong of a sandal, and that I will not take any thing that is thine, lest thou shouldest say, I have made Avram rich; 
Save only that which the young men have eaten, and the chelek of the anashim which went with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their chelek. 
