CHAGGAI.
Chapter 2.
In the seventh month, in the one and twentieth yom of the month, came the Devar Hashem by Chaggai HaNavi, saying: 
Speak now to Zerubavel ben Sh'altiel, Governor of Yehudah, and to Yehoshua ben Yehotzadak, the Kohen HaGadol, and to the she'erit HaAm, saying: 
Who is left among you that saw this Beis in her kavod harishon? And how do ye see it now? In comparison to it, is it not in your eyes as nothing? 
Yet now chazak (be strong), O Zerubavel, saith Hashem; and chazak (be strong), O Yehoshua ben Yehotzadak, Kohen HaGadol; and chazak (be strong), kol Am Ha'Aretz, saith Hashem, and work; for I am with you, saith Hashem Tzva'os. 
According to the word that I covenanted with you when ye came out of Mitzrayim, so My Ruach remaineth among you; fear ye not. 
For thus saith Hashem Tzva'os: Once more, it is a little while, and I will shake HaShomayim and Ha'Aretz and the yam (sea) and the kharavah (arid land); 
And I will shake kol Goyim, and the Chemdat kol HaGoyim (desired of all nations) shall come: and I will fill this Beis with kavod, saith Hashem Tzva'os. 
The kesef is Mine, and the zahav is Mine, saith Hashem Tzva'os. 
The kavod of this latter Beis shall be greater than of the former, saith Hashem Tzva'os: and in this place will I give shalom, saith Hashem Tzva'os. 
In the four and twentieth yom of the ninth month, in the second year of Daryavesh, came the Devar Hashem by Chaggai HaNavi, saying, 
Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os; Ask now the kohanim concerning the torah, saying, 
If one carry basar kodesh in the fold of his garment, and with his fold do touch lechem, or that which is boiled, or yayin, or shemen (olive oil), or any food, shall it thus be made kodesh? And the kohanim answered and said, Lo (No). 
Then said Chaggai, If one that is tamei (unclean) by a nefesh (dead body) touch any of these, shall it be tamei? And the kohanim answered and said, It shall be tamei. 
Then answered Chaggai, and said, So is this people, and so is this nation before Me, saith Hashem; and so is every work of their hands; and that which they offer there is tamei (unclean). 
And now, I pray you, consider from this yom and onward, from before an even (stone) was laid upon an even (stone) in the Heikhal Hashem; 
Since those yamim were, when one came to a heap of grain of twenty measures, there were but ten; when one came to the wine vat for to draw out fifty vessels, there were but twenty. 
I struck you with blight and with mildew and with hail in all the labors of your hands; yet ye made not teshuvah to Me, saith Hashem. 
Consider now from this yom and onward, from the four and twentieth yom of the ninth month, even from the yom that the Yesod (Foundation) of the Heikhal Hashem was laid, consider it. 
Is the seed still in the granary? As yet the gefen, and the etz te'enah, and the pomegranate, and etz hazayit (olive tree), hath not brought forth. From this yom forth will I bless you. 
And again the Devar Hashem came unto Chaggai in the four and twentieth yom of the month, saying: 
Speak to Zerubavel, Governor of Yehudah, saying, I will shake HaShomayim and Ha'Aretz; 
And I will overthrow the throne of mamlachot (kingdoms), and I will destroy the chozek (strength) of the mamlachot HaGoyim; and I will overthrow the merkavot, and those that ride in them; and the susim and their riders shall fall, every one by the cherev (sword) of achiv. 
In that yom, saith Hashem Tzva'os, will I take thee, O Zerubavel ben Sh'altiel, Avdi (My Servant), saith Hashem, and will make thee as a chotam (signet ring); for I have chosen thee, saith Hashem Tzva'os.
