YESHAYAH.
Chapter 63.
Who is this that cometh from Edom, with crimson begadim (garments) from Botzrah? This that is glorious in His apparel, striding in the greatness of His ko'ach? It is I, speaking in tzedakah, mighty to save. 
Why art Thou adom (red) in Thine apparel, and Thy garments like him that treadeth in the winepress? 
I have trodden the winepress alone; and of the amim (peoples, nations) there was none with Me; for I will trample them in Mine wrath, and trod them down in My fury; and the juice of their life blood splattered upon My garments, and I stained all My raiment. 
For Yom Nekam (Day of Vengeance) is in Mine lev, and My Shanat Geulah (Year of Redemption) is come. 
And I looked, and there was no ozer (helper); and I was appalled that there was no supporter; therefore Mine own zero'a wrought Salvation for Me; and My wrath, it upheld Me. 
And I will trample down the amim (nations) in Mine wrath, and make them drunk in My fury, and I will pour out the juice of their life blood down on the earth. 
I will rehearse the chasadim (lovingkindnesses) of Hashem, and the tehillot Hashem, according to all that Hashem hath bestowed on us, and the great goodness toward the Bais Yisroel, which He hath bestowed on them according to His rachamim, and according to the multitude of His chasadim. 
For He said: Surely they are My people, banim that will not be sheker (false); so He became their Moshi'a (Savior). 
In all their tzoros He was afflicted, and the malach of His presence saved them; in His ahavah and in His mercy He redeemed them; and He lifted them up, and carried them kol y'mei olam. 
But they rebelled, and grieved His Ruach Hakodesh; therefore He turned against them as oyev (enemy), and He fought against them. 
Then His people remembered the y'mei olam (days of old), of Moshe. Where is He that brought them up out of the yam (sea) with the ro'im of His tzon? Where is He that put His Ruach Hakodesh in the midst of them? 
Who led them at the right hand of Moshe with His zero'a tiferet, dividing the mayim before them, to make Himself a Shem Olam? 
Who led them through the tehomot, like the sus (horse) in the midbar, that they should not stumble? 
As behemah goeth down into the valley, the Ruach Hashem caused them to rest; thus didst Thou lead Thy people, to make for Thee a Shem Tiferet. 
Look down from Shomayim, and behold from the habitation of Thy kodesh and of Thy Tiferet. Where is Thy kina (zeal) and Thy gevurah (might)? The yearning of Thy heart and of Thy rachamim are withheld toward me. 
Doubtless Thou art Avinu, though Avraham not have da'as of us, and Yisroel not acknowledge us; Thou, Hashem, art Avinu, Go'aleinu; Shemecha is from everlasting. 
Hashem, why hast Thou made us to go astray from Thy drakhim, and hardened libenu (our hearts) from fearing Thee? Shuv (return) l'ma'an (for the sake of) Avadeicha (Thy servants), Shivtei Nachalatecha (the Tribes of Thine Inheritance). 
Am Kadshecha (People of Thy holiness, Thy Holy People) have possessed it but a little while; our adversaries have trampled down Thy Mikdash. 
We have become such as them over whom Thou hast never ruled, those who were not called by Shimecha (Thy Name). 64:1 O, that Thou wouldest rend Shomayim, that Thou wouldest come down, so that the harim might shake at Thy presence, 
