HISGALUS.
Chapter 17.
And one of the shiva malachim (seven angels) having the sheva hamakkot (seven plagues) came and spoke with me saying, “Bo! (Come!) I will show you the mishpat (judgment) of the Zonah HaGedolah (the Great Prostitute) sitting on rabbim mayim, 
With whom the melachim (kings) of kol ha'aretz (all the earth) have committed zenut (fornication) and with the yayin of whose zenut (fornication) kol ha'aretz (all the earth) has fallen into shichrut (drunkenness).” 
And he carried me away into the midbar (wilderness) in the Ruach Hakodesh, and I saw an Isha sitting on a scarlet Chayyah (Beast, Anti-Moshiach) being filled with names of Chillul Hashem gidufim, having sheva (seven) heads and eser (ten) horns. 
And the Isha had been clothed in purple and scarlet, and gilded with zahav (gold) and precious stone and pearls, having a golden kos (cup) in her hand and the kos was full of the abominations and the uncleannesses of her zenut. 
And on her metsakh (forehead) a name had been written: SOD BAVEL HAGEDOLAH EM L'ZONOT V'SHIKKUTZEI HA'ARETZ (“Mystery of Babylon the Great, the Mother of Prostitutes and of the Abominations and Idols of the Earth”). 
And I saw the Isha being drunk, intoxicated from the dahm of the Kedoshim and from the dahm of the edim (witnesses) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. And when I saw her, I was struck with astonishment. 
And the malach (angel), said to me, “Why did you marvel? I will tell you the Sod HaIsha (the mystery, raz of the woman) and of the Chayyah (Anti-Moshiach) having the sheva heads and the eser (ten) horns carrying her. 
The Chayyah (Anti-Moshiach), which you saw, was, and is not, and is about to come up out of the Tehom (Abyss) and goes to destruction. And the ones dwelling on ha'aretz will be astonished, those whose names have not been found written in the Sefer HaChayyim (Book of Life) from the hivvased tevel (foundation of the world), when they see the Chayyah (Anti-Moshiach) that was, and is not, and is to come. 
This calls for a mind having chochmah (wisdom). The sheva (seven) heads are sheva (seven) mountains. On these the Isha is sitting also, they are shiva (seven) melachim (kings); 
Five of whom have fallen, one is living, and the other did not yet come; and when he comes, it is necessary for him to remain a little zman (time). 
And the Chayyah which was and is not, even he is an Eighth, but belongs to HaShivah (The Seven) and goes to Avaddon (Destruction). 
And the eser (ten) horns which you saw are asarah melachim (ten kings) who have not yet received a malchut, but they are to receive samchut (authority) as melachim (kings), for one hour, together with the Chayyah (Anti-Moshiach). 
These are united in yielding their ko'ach (power) and samchut (authority) to the Chayyah (Anti-Moshiach). 
These with the SEH (Lamb), will make milchamah (war), and the SEH (Lamb), will conquer them, because He is Adon HaAdonim and Melech HaMelachim; and the ones with him are the Keru'im v'Nivcharim v'Ne'emanim (Called and Chosen and Faithful).” 
And he says to me, “The mayim which you saw, where the zonah (prostitute) sits, are amim (peoples) and multitudes and Goyim (Nations) and leshonot (languages). 
And the eser (ten) horns which you saw and the Chayyah (Anti-Moshiach) — these will have sin'ah (hatred) for the zonah (prostitute), and they will make her desolate and naked and will eat her basar and will burn her up in eish. 
For Hashem has put it into the levavot (hearts) of them to accomplish his purpose by their acting with one mind and by giving their malchut (kingdom) to the Chayyah (Anti-Moshiach) until will be fulfilled the divrei Hashem. 
And the Isha whom you saw is the Ir Hagedolah (Great City) that rules over the melachim (kings) of ha'aretz.” 
