TEHILLIM.
Chapter 66.
(For the one directing. Shir. Mizmor) 1 Make a joyful shout unto Elohim, kol HaAretz; 
Sing forth the kavod Shmo; make kavod (glorious) His tehillah (praise). 
Say unto Elohim, How norah (awesome) art Thou in Thy ma'asim (works)! Through the greatness of Thy oz (might) shall Thine oyevim cower before Thee. 
Kol ha'aretz shall prostrate before Thee, and shall sing unto Thee; they shall sing praise to Shimecha. Selah 
Come and see the works of Elohim; He is norah (awesome) in deed toward Bnei Adam. 
He turned the yam into yabashah (dry land); they passed through the nahar on regel; there did we rejoice in Him. 
He ruleth by His gevurah (power) olam (forever); His eyes are a watchmanʼs eyes over the Goyim; let not the sorerim (rebellious ones) exalt themselves. Selah 
Barchu Eloheinu, Amim, and make the kol (sound) of His tehillah (praise) to be heard. 
He is the One who set nafsheinu in chayyim and does not permit ragleinu (our foot) to slip. 
For Thou, Elohim, hath tested us and hast proved us; Thou hast put us in the crucibleʼs refining and refined us as kesef. 
Thou broughtest us into the metzudah (prison); Thou laidst a mu'akah (burden) upon our loins. 
Thou hast caused enosh (mankind) to ride over rosheinu (our head); we went through eish and through mayim; but Thou broughtest us out into plenty. 
I will come into Thy Beis with olot; I will fulfill for Thee my nedarim, 
Which my sfatayim have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was in tzoros. 
I will offer unto Thee olot mekhim (burnt offerings of fat animals), with the ketoret (incense, offering) of rams; I will offer bakar with goats. Selah 
Come and hear, Kol Yirei Elohim, and I will declare what He hath done for my nefesh. 
I cried unto Him with my mouth, and He was extolled with my leshon. 
If I regard avon (iniquity, sin) in my lev, Adonoi will not hear me; 
But surely Elohim hath heard me; He hath attended to the kol tefillati (voice of my prayer). 
Baruch Elohim, Who hath not turned away my tefillah, nor His chesed from me. 
