TEHILLIM.
Chapter 105.
O give thanks unto Hashem; call upon Shmo; make known His deeds among the amim. 
Sing unto Him, sing praise unto Him; talk ye of all His nifle'ot (wondrous works). 
Glory ye in the Shem Kadosh of Him; let the lev of them that seek Hashem be glad. 
Seek Hashem, and His oz (strength); seek His face tamid. 
Remember His nifla'ot (marvellous works) that He hath done; His mofetim (wonders), and the mishpatim of His mouth; 
O ye zera Avraham His eved, ye Bnei Ya'akov His Bechirim (chosen ones). 
He is Hashem Eloheinu; His mishpatim are in kol ha'aretz. 
He hath remembered His Brit l'olam, the Dvar which He commanded to an elef dor (a thousand generations), 
Which Brit He made with Avraham, and His shevu'ah (oath) unto Yitzchak; 
And confirmed the same unto Ya'akov for a chok (decree), and to Yisroel as Brit Olam; 
Saying, Unto thee will I give Eretz Kena'an, the chevel (lot, portion) of your nachalah. 
When they were but few in mispar (number), very few, and gerim (strangers) in it. 
When they went from one goy (nation) to another, from one mamlachah (kingdom) to am acher (another people); 
He permitted no adam to oppress them; and He reproved melachim for their sakes; 
Saying, Touch not Mine meshichim (anointed ones, My Messianics), and do My nevi'im no harm. 
Moreover He called for a ra'av (famine) upon ha'aretz; He broke the kol matteh (whole staff of, all supply of) lechem. 
He sent an ish before them, even Yosef, who was sold as an eved (slave); 
Whose regel they hurt with the kevel (shackle); his nefesh was laid in barzel; 
Until the time that his dvar (prophecy, word) came to pass; the Imrat Hashem(revelation, word of G-d), had tested him. 
The Melech sent and released him, the Moshel Amim, and set him free. 
He made him adon of his bais, and moshel of all his possessions; 
To bind his sarim (princes) at his pleasure; and teach his zekenim chochmah. 
Yisroel also came into Mitzrayim; thus Ya'akov sojourned in Eretz Cham. 
And He increased Amo (His people) greatly; and made them stronger than their enemies. 
He turned their lev to hate Amo, to deal cunningly with His avadim. 
He sent Moshe His Eved; and Aharon whom He had chosen. 
They showed His Otot (signs) among them, and mofetim (wonders) in Eretz Cham. 
He sent choshech, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against His Devar. 
He turned their mayim into dahm, and made their dag (fish) die. 
Their land brought forth tzfarde'im (frogs) in abundance, even in the chadarim (rooms) of their melachim. 
He spoke, and there came arov (flies), and kinim (lice) in all their territory. 
He gave them barad (hail) for geshem (rain), and eish of lightning in their land. 
He struck down their gefen also and their te'enah (fig tree); and broke the trees of their territory. 
He spoke, and the arbeh (locusts) came, and grasshoppers, and that without number, 
And did eat up all the esev (herbs) in their land, and devoured their p'ri adamah (fruit of the ground). 
He struck down also kol bechor in their land, the reshit (firstfruit) of all their strength. 
He brought them forth also with kesef and zahav; and there was not one stumbling among His Shvatim (tribes). 
Mitzrayim was glad when they departed; for the pachad (terror, dread) of them had fallen upon them. 
He spread an anan for a curtain; and eish to give light in the lailah. 
The people asked, and He brought slav (quails), and satisfied them with the lechem Shomayim. 
He opened the Tzur, and the mayim gushed out; it ran in the dry places like a nahar. 
For He remembered His Davar Kadosh, and Avraham His eved. 
And He brought forth His people with sasson, and His chosen with joyful shouts; 
And gave them the lands of the Goyim; and they inherited the amal (labor, toil) of the amim; 
That they might be shomer over His chukkot, and observe His torot (laws). Praise Hashem. 
