BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 28.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Command the Bnei Yisroel, and say unto them, My korban, and My lechem by My fires, My re'ach hannichoach, shall ye be shomer to offer unto Me in its mo'ed. 
And thou shalt say unto them, This is the fire-offering which ye shall offer unto Hashem; two kevasim (male lambs) of the first year temimim, two a day, for an olah tamid. 
The one keves shalt thou offer in the boker, and the other keves shalt thou offer towards erev; 
And a tenth-ephah of fine flour for a minchah, mixed with the fourth-hin of pressed shemen. 
It is an olat tamid (continual burnt offering) which was ordained in Mt Sinai for a re'ach hannichoach, a fire-offering unto Hashem. 
And the nesekh (libation offering) thereof shall be the fourth-hin for the one keves: baKodesh shalt thou cause the nesekh shechar to be poured out unto Hashem. 
And the other keves (male lamb) shalt thou offer at erev: like the minchah of the boker, and like the nesekh thereof, thou shalt offer it, a fire-offering of re'ach hannicho'ach unto Hashem. 
And on Yom HaShabbos two kevasim of the first year temimim (unblemished ones) and two tenths-ephah of fine flour for a minchah, mixed with shemen, and the nesekh thereof; 
This is the olah (burnt offering) of every Shabbos, in addition to the continual olah, and its nesekh. 
And at each Rosh-Chodesh of yours, ye shall offer an olah unto Hashem; two young bulls, and one ram, shivah kevasim (male lambs) of the first year temimim (unblemished ones); 
And three tenths-ephah of fine flour for a minchah, mixed with shemen, for each bull; and two tenths-ephah of fine flour for a minchah, mixed with shemen for the one ram; 
And a tenth-ephah of fine flour mixed with shemen for a minchah for each keves; for an olah (burnt offering) of a re'ach hannichoach, a fire-offering unto Hashem. 
And their nesakhim shall be a half-hin for each bull, and the third-hin for the ram, and a quarter-hin for each keves: this is the olah (burnt offering) for every Rosh Chodesh throughout the months of the shanah (year). 
And one young male goat for a chattat unto Hashem shall be offered. It shall be in addition to the continual olah (burnt offering), and its nesekh. 
And in the fourteenth day of the chodesh harishon (first month i.e., Nisan) is the Pesach to Hashem. 
And in the fifteenth day of this month is a Chag: shivat yamim shall matzot be eaten. 
In the yom harishon shall be a mikra kodesh (holy convocation); ye shall do no manner of melekhet avodah therein; 
But ye shall offer a fire-offering for an olah unto Hashem; two young bulls, and one ram, and shivah kevasim of the first year; they shall be unto you temimim (unblemished ones). 
And their minchah shall be of fine flour mixed with shemen: three tenths-ephah shall ye offer for each bull, and two tenths-ephah for the ram; 
One tenth-ephah shalt thou offer for each keves, of the shivat hakevasim. 
And one goat for a chattat, to make kapporah for you. 
Ye shall offer these in addition to the olah (burnt offering) of the boker, which is for the olat hatamid (continual burnt offering). 
After this manner ye shall offer daily, throughout the shivat yamim (seven days): lechem, a fire-offering, reiach hannichoach unto Hashem: it shall be offered in addition to the olat hatamid (the continual burnt offering), and its nesekh. 
And on the yom hashevi'i ye shall have a mikra kodesh; ye shall do no melekhet avodah. 
Also in the Yom HaBikkurim, when ye bring a minchah chadashah unto Hashem, on your Shavu'os, ye shall have a mikra kodesh; ye shall do no melekhet avodah: 
But ye shall offer the olah (burnt offering) for a reach hannichoach unto Hashem; two young bulls, one ram, shivah kevasim of the first year; 
And their minchah of fine flour mixed with shemen, three tenths-ephah for each bull, two tenths-ephah for the ayil haechad (one ram). 
One tenth-ephah unto one keves for each of the shivat hakevasim; 
And one male goat, to make kapporah for you. 
Ye shall offer them in addition to the olat hatamid and its minchah, (they shall be unto you tamimim, unblemished ones) and their nesakhim. 
