Romans.
Chapter 16.
I recommend to you achoteinu (our sister) Phoebe, the Messianic Shammash of the kehillah in Cenchrea, 
That you be mekarev (welcome and treat well) to her in Adoneinu, in a manner worthy of the Kedoshim and assist her in whatever matter she may have need of you. For she herself has also been patroness of many and of myself. 
Drishat Shalom to Prisca and Aquila my fellow po'alim (workers) in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua, 
Who performed an act of Messianic mesirat nefesh (whole-hearted devotion to the cause of Moshiach, even at risk of life) for my sake, and for whom not only I give thanks, but also kol kehillot of the Nations; 
Also Drishat Shalom to the kehillah (congregation) that meets in their house. Drishat Shalom to my beloved Epaenetus, who is the bikkurim (firstfruits) of Asia for Moshiach. 
Drishat Shalom to Miryam, who has labored much for you. 
Drishat Shalom to Andronicus and Junia, my kinsfolk and my fellow prisoners, who are outstanding among Moshiachʼs shlichim, and also were in Moshiach before me. 
Drishat Shalom to Ampliatus, my beloved chaver in Adoneinu. 
Drishat Shalom to Urbanus, our fellow po'el (worker) in Moshiach, and my beloved Stachys. 
Drishat Shalom to Apelles, approved in Moshiach. Drishat Shalom to those from the household of Aristobulus. 
Drishat Shalom to Herodion, my kinsman. Drishat Shalom to those of the household of Narcissus who are in Adoneinu. 
Drishat Shalom to Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who have worked hard in Adoneinu. Drishat Shalom to the beloved Persis, who has labored much in Adoneinu. 
Drishat Shalom to Rufus the Bechir (the Chosen one) in Adoneinu; also his Em and mine. 
Drishat Shalom to Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the Achim b'Moshiach with them. 
Drishat Shalom to Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his achot; also Olympas and all the Kedoshim with them. 
Greet one another with a neshikat hakodesh. All the Kehillot of Moshiach send you Drishat Shalom. 
I appeal to you, Achim b'Moshiach, to look out for those who cause kitot (sects) and nisyonot (temptations) contrary to the Torah which you learned, and keep away from them. 
For such people do not serve Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu but their own appetites, and through smooth loshon and fine sounding words they deceive the levavot of the unsuspecting. 
For your mishma'at has become known to all. So I have simcha over you, but want you to be chachamim regarding what is HaTov and innocent regarding what is HaRah. 
And Elohei HaShalom will soon crush HaSatan under your feet. Chesed Adoneinu Moshiach Yehoshua yi'heyeh immachem (The unmerited favor, mercy and grace of Adoneinu Moshiach Yehoshua be with you). 
Timotiyos my fellow po'el sends Drishat Shalom to you; also Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen. 
I, Tertius, who have written the iggeret, send Drishat Shalom to you in Adoneinu. 
Gaius, who is host to me and to the whole kehillah sends Drishat Shalom to you. Erastus, the city treasurer, sends Drishat Shalom to you, also the Ach b'Moshiach, Quartus.  
The chen v'chesed of Adoneinu Moshiach Yehoshua be with you all. Omein. 
To him who is able to establish you by my Besuras HaGeulah, and the hachrazah (proclamation, kerygma) of Moshiach Yehoshua, in the hisgalus haSod concealed for long ages, 
but now made manifest and through Ketuvim Nevu'iyim, in accordance with the mitzvoh of the Elohei Olam (the Eternal G-d), made known for the mishma'at (obedience) of emunah for kol haGoyim, 
to the only Elohim heChacham (only wise G-d), lo HaKavod b'Moshiach Yehoshua leolemei olemim. Omein.
