IYOV.
Chapter 32.
So these shloshet ha'anashim ceased to answer Iyov, because he was tzaddik in his eyes. 
Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu ben Barakhel the Buzi, of the mishpochah Ram; against Iyov was his wrath kindled, because Iyov justified his nefesh rather than Elohim. 
Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no ma'aneh (refutation, answer), and yet had condemned Iyov. 
Now Elihu had waited till Iyov had spoken, because they were elder than he. 
When Elihu saw that there was no ma'aneh in the mouth of these shloshet ha'anashim, then his wrath was kindled. 
And Elihu ben Barakhel the Buzi answered and said, I am young, and ye are very old; wherefore I was afraid, and dared not tell you of what I have da'as. 
I said, Yamim should speak, and multitude of shanim should teach chochmah. 
But there is a ruach in enosh, and the neshamat Shaddai giveth them binah. 
Great men are not always wise, neither do the zekenim understand mishpat. 
Therefore I said, Pay heed to me; I also will tell of what I have da'as. 
Hen (behold), I waited for your devarim; I gave ear to your reasons, whilst ye searched out what to say. 
Yea, I attended unto you, and, hinei, there was none of you that proved Iyov wrong, or that answered his words. 
Yet do not say, We have found chochmah; El may vanquish him, lo ish (not man). 
Now he hath not directed his millin (words) against me; neither will I answer him with your speeches. 
They were amazed; they answered no od (more); they left off speaking. 
When I had waited, (for they spoke not, but stood still, and answered no od more); 
I said, I will answer also my chelek (portion); I also will show of mine da'as. 
For I am full of millim (words), the ruach within me compelleth me. 
Hinei, my beten is like yayin which hath no vent; it is ready to burst like ovot chadashim (new wineskins). 
I will speak that I may be relieved; I will open my sfatayim and answer. 
Let me not, now, show any man partiality, neither let me flatter adam. 
For I am not skilled in flattery; in so doing Oseini (my Maker) would soon take me away. 
