YOCHANAN.
Chapter 2.
On Yom HaShelishi, there was a Chasunoh (Wedding Feast) in Kanah in the Galil; and the Em (Mother) of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was there. 
He and his talmidim were also invited to the Chasunoh (Wedding Feast). 
And when yayin (wine) was lacking, the Em of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to him, They do not have yayin. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to her, Mah lanu valach, Isha? My sha'ah (hour, time) has not yet come. 
The Em of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to the mesharetim, Asher yomar lakhem ta'asu (Do whatever he tells you). 
Now there were shesh (six) stone water jars lying there. These were for the Jewish tohorot, each holding twenty to thirty gallons. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Fill with mayim. And they filled them up to the top. 
And he says to them, Draw now and bring to the Rosh HaMesibba (Head of the Reception, Feast). And they brought it. 
And when the Rosh HaMesibba tasted the mayim having become yayin, and when he did not have da'as of where it came from — but the mesharetim had da'as, the ones having drawn the water — the Rosh HaMesibba summoned the Choson (Bridegroom). 
And the Rosh HaMesibba says to him, Everyone sets out the yayin hatov first, and when they have become drunk, he sets out the inferior; you have kept the yayin hatov until now. 
This was the reshit (beginning) of the otot (miraculous signs) Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach accomplished in Kanah of the Galil, and he manifested the kavod (glory) of him, v'ya'aminu bo (and they put their faith in him). 
After this he went down to K'far-Nachum and the Em of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and the achim and his talmidim also, and there they remained not many yamim (days). 
And Pesach was fast approaching, and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach went up to Yerushalayim. 
And he found in the Beis Hamikdash the ones selling oxen and sheep and doves and the coin-dealers sitting. 
And having made a shot (whip) out of ropes Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach drove all of them out of the Beis Hamikdash, both the sheep and the cattle. He also poured out the coins of the machalifei hakesafim (money-changers) and overturned their tishen (tables). 
And to the ones selling doves, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Take these things from here. Do not make the Bais Avi a bais hasokharim (house of merchants). 
The talmidim of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach remembered that it had been written, KINAT BETECHA AKHALATNI (Zeal for Your bais hath consumed me). 
In reply, those of Yehudah then said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, What ot (miraculous sign) do you show us for these things you do? 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Bring churban to this heikhal and in shloshah yamim I will raise it. 
Those of Yehudah then said, In forty and six years this Heikhal was built and you in shloshah yamim will raise it? 
But that one was speaking about the heikhal of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiachʼs basar. 
Therefore, when he underwent the Techiyas HaMoshiach (Resurrection of the Moshiach), his talmidim remembered that this he was saying and v'ya'aminu(and they put their faith) in the Kitvei Hakodesh and the dvar which Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said. 
And when Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was in Yerushalayim during Pesach at the Chag (Feast), many from Yehudah had emunah (faith) in ha-Shem of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, seeing his otot (miraculous signs) which he was doing. 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was not entrusting himself to them, because he had da'as of kol Bnei Adam. 
And he had no need that anyone should give solemn edut (testimony) about them, for he knew what was in Bnei Adam. 
