MELACHIM ALEF.
Chapter 15.
Now in the eighteenth year of Melech Yarov'am Ben Nevat reigned Aviyam over Yehudah. 
Shalosh shanim reigned he in Yerushalayim. And shem immo was Ma'achah Bat Avishalom. 
And he walked in all the chattot Aviv, which he had done before him; and his lev was not shalem (fully devoted) to Hashem Elohav, as the levav Dovid Aviv. 
Nevertheless l'ma'an Dovid (for the sake of Dovid) did Hashem Elohav give him a ner (lamp) in Yerushalayim, to raise up Bno after him, and to establish Yerushalayim; 
Because Dovid did that which was yashar in the eyes of Hashem, and turned not aside from any thing that He commanded him all the days of his life, except only in the matter of Uriyah HaChitti (the Hittite). 
And there was milchamah between Rechav'am and Yarov'am all the days of his life. 
Now the rest of the acts of Aviyam, and all that he did, are they not written in the Sefer Divrei HaYamim L'Malkhei Yehudah? And there was milchamah between Aviyam and Yarov'am. 
And Aviyam slept with his avot; and they buried him in Ir Dovid; and Asa Bno reigned in his place. 
And in the twentieth year of Yarov'am Melech Yisroel, Asa began to reign as Melech over Yehudah. 
And forty and one years reigned he in Yerushalayim. And shem immo was Ma'achah Bat Avishalom. 
And Asa did that which was yashar in the eyes of Hashem, as did Dovid Aviv. 
And he removed kedeshim (the male and female cult prostitutes) out of HaAretz, and got rid of kol hagillulim (all the idols) that his avot had made. 
And also Ma'achah immo, even her he deposed from being Gevirah (Queen Mother), because she had made a mifletzet (idol) to Asherah; and Asa cut down her mifletzet, and burned it in the Kidron Valley. 
But the high places were not removed; nevertheless levav Asa was shalem with Hashem all his days. 
And he brought in the kodshei Aviv (the things his father had dedicated), and the things which he himself had dedicated, into the Beis Hashem, kesef, and zahav, and kelim. 
And there was milchamah between Asa and Ba'asha Melech Yisroel all their days. 
And Ba'asha Melech Yisroel went up against Yehudah, and built up Ramah, that he might not suffer any to go out or come in to Asa Melech Yehudah. 
Then Asa took all the kesef and the zahav that were left in the otzarot of the Beis Hashem, and the otzarot of the Bais HaMelech, and delivered them into the yad of his avadim; and HaMelech Asa sent them to Ben-Hadad, Ben Tavrimmon Ben Chezyon Melech Aram, that dwelt at Damascus, saying, 
There is a brit between me and thee, and between Avi and Avicha; hinei, I send unto thee a shochad (incentive kind of gift) of kesef and zahav; come, break thy brit with Ba'asha Melech Yisroel, that he may withdraw from me. 
So Ben-Hadad paid heed unto HaMelech Asa, and sent the commanders of his forces against the towns of Yisroel, and struck Iyon, and Dan, and Abel Beit-Ma'achah, and kol Kinnerot, with Kol Eretz Naphtali. 
And it came to pass, when Ba'asha heard this, he stopped building Ramah, and stayed in Tirtzah. 
Then HaMelech Asa made a proclamation throughout all Yehudah; none was exempted; and they carried away the stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Ba'asha had built; and HaMelech Asa built up with them Geva of Binyamin, and Mitzpah. 
The rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his gevurah, and all that he did, and the cities which he built, are they not written in the Sefer Divrei HaYamim L'Malkhei Yehudah? Nevertheless in the time of his ziknah (old age) he was diseased in his raglayim. 
And Asa slept with his avot, and was buried with his avot in Ir Dovid Aviv; and Yehoshaphat Bno reigned in his place. 
And Nadav Ben Yarov'am began to reign as Melech over Yisroel in the second year of Asa Melech Yehudah, and reigned over Yisroel two years. 
And he did rah in the eyes of Hashem, and walked in the derech Aviv, and in his chattat wherewith he made Yisroel to commit sin. 
And Ba'asha Ben Achiyah, of the Bais of Yissakhar, plotted a keshar against him; and Ba'asha struck him down at Gibeton, which belonged to the Pelishtim; for Nadav and kol Yisroel were laying siege to Gibeton. 
Even in the third year of Asa Melech Yehudah did Ba'asha slay him, and reigned in his place. 
And it came to pass, when he reigned, that he put to death kol Bais Yarov'am; he left not to Yarov'am kol neshamah, until he had destroyed him, according unto the Devar Hashem, which He spoke by His eved Achiyah the Shiloni; 
Because of the chattot Yarov'am which he sinned, and which he made Yisroel sin, by his provocation wherewith he provoked Hashem Elohei Yisroel to anger. 
Now the rest of the acts of Nadav, and all that he did, are they not written in the Sefer Divrei HaYamim L'Malkhei Yisroel? 
And there was milchamah between Asa and Ba'asha Melech Yisroel all their days. 
In the third year of Asa Melech Yehudah began Ba'asha Ben Achiyah to reign as Melech over kol Yisroel in Tirtzah, a reign lasting twenty and four years. 
And he did rah (evil) in the eyes of Hashem, and walked in the derech Yarov'am, and in his chattat wherewith he made Yisroel to commit sin. 
