BERESHIS.
Chapter 50.
And Yosef fell upon the face of Aviv, and wept over him, and kissed him. 
And Yosef commanded his avadim the rofe'im (physicians) to embalm Aviv; and the rofe'im embalmed Yisroel. 
And arba'im yom were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the days of those which are embalmed; and the Mitzrayim mourned for him shivim yom (seventy days). 
And when the days of his mourning were past, Yosef spoke unto the Bais Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found chen in your eyes, speak, now, in the oznayim of Pharaoh, saying, 
Avi made me swear, saying, Hinei, I die; in my kever which I dug for myself in Eretz Kena'an, there shalt thou bury me. Therefore let me go up, now, and bury Avi, and I will return. 
And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury Avicha, according as he made thee swear. 
And Yosef went up to bury Aviv; and with him went up all the avadim of Pharaoh, the zekenim of his Bais, and all the zekenim of Eretz Mitzrayim, 
And kol Bais Yosef, and his achim, and Bais Aviv; only their little ones, and their tzon, and their bakar (cattle), they left in Eretz Goshen. 
And there went up with him both merkavot and parashim; and it was a very great machaneh. 
And they came to the goren (threshing floor) of Atad, which is beyond the Yarden, and there they mourned with a gadol and very bitter lamentation; and he made evel (mourning) for Aviv shivat yamim. 
And when the inhabitants of HaAretz, the Kena'ani, saw the evel (mourning) in the goren Atad, they said, This is a grievous evel to the Mitzrayim; therefore the shem of it was called Avel-Mitzrayim. It is beyond the Yarden. 
And his Ya'akovʼs banim did unto him according as he commanded them; 
For his banim carried him into Eretz Kena'an, and buried him in the me'arah (cave) of the sadeh of Machpelah, near Mamre, the sadeh which Avraham had bought for an achuzzat kever (burial estate) and made the purchase from Ephron the Chitti. 
And, after burying Aviv, Yosef returned into Mitzrayim, he, and his achim, and all that went up with him to bury Aviv. 
And when the Achei Yosef (the brothers of Yosef) saw that Avihem was dead, they said, What if Yosef will hate us, and will certainly requite us all the ra'ah which we did unto him. 
And they sent word unto Yosef, saying, Avicha did command before he died, saying, 
So shall ye say unto Yosef, Forgive, now, the peysha of thy achim, and their chattat; for they did unto thee ra'ah; and now, forgive the peysha of the Avdei Elohei Avicha. And Yosef wept when they spoke unto him. 
And his achim also went and fell down before him; and they said, Behold us, we are thy avadim. 
And Yosef said unto them, Fear not; for am I in the place of Elohim? 
But as for you, ye intended ra'ah against me; but Elohim intended it for tovah, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save Am Rav (much people) alive. 
Now therefore fear ye not; I will provide for you, and your little ones. And he comforted them, and spoke kindly unto their hearts. 
And Yosef dwelt in Mitzrayim, he, and Bais Aviv; and Yosef lived one hundred and ten shanim. 
And Yosef saw Ephrayimʼs bnei shileshim (children to the third generation); also the Bnei Machir Ben Menasheh were brought up upon the birkei Yosef (knees of Yosef). 
And Yosef said unto his achim, I die; and Elohim will surely visit you, and bring you out of this land unto HaAretz which He promised by oath to Avraham, to Yitzchak, and to Ya'akov. 
And Yosef made the Bnei Yisroel take an oath, saying, Elohim will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my atzmot from hence. 
So Yosef died, being in age one hundred and ten shanim; and they embalmed him, and he was placed in an aron in Mitzrayim.
