MARKOS.
Chapter 8.
In yamim hahem (those days), again, when there was a great multitude and they had no okhel (food), Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach called his talmidim, and says to them, 
I have rachmei shomayim (heavenly mercy, compassion) on the multitude, because they already shlosha yamim (three days) have remained with me and they do not have anything they may eat; 
And if I send them away hungry to their batim (houses), they will give out on the way; and some of them have come from far away. 
And his talmidim answered him, From where will anyone be able to find enough lechem to feed these ones here in the midbar? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was asking them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Shevah. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach directed the multitude to recline at tish, as it were, on the ground. And having taken the sheva kikrot (loaves), he made a bracha, saying the ha-Motzi, and offered the betziat halechem (the breaking of the bread) and was giving them to his talmidim to serve to them, and they served the multitude. 
And they also had a few small dagim. And after he had made the bracha over them, he directed these to be served as well. 
And they ate and were satisfied. And there was an abundance of shirayim (Rebbeʼs remainders), sheva baskets full. 
And there were approximately arbaat elafim (four thousand) people. And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach sent them away. 
And ofen ort (immediately), having embarked onto the sirah (boat) with his talmidim, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach came into the region of Dalmanutha. 
And the Perushim came out and began to argue with him, seeking from him an ot min HaShomayim (a sign from heaven), testing him. 
And sighing deeply in his ruach, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Why does hador hazeh (this generation) seek for an ot? Omein, I say to you, no ot shall be given to hador hazeh (this generation). 
And having left them, Moshiach again embarked and departed to the other side. 
And his talmidim had forgotten to take lechem and did not have anything except one kikar (loaf) in the sirah (boat) with them. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was giving orders to them, saying, Take care! Beware of the chametz (leaven) of the Perushim and the chametz of Herod. 
And the talmidim were beginning to discuss among themselves that they do not have any kikrot (loaves). 
And aware of this, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Why are you discussing that you do not have kikrot? Do you not yet have binah (understanding) nor comprehend? Have your levavot fallen into timtum halev (hardening of the heart), KESHI(hardness, stubbornness)? 
EINAYIM LAKHEM VLO TIRU VOZNAYIM LAKHEM VLO TISHMAU?(Having eyes, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear?) And do you not remember, 
When I offered the beziat halechem with the chamesh kikrot (five loaves) for the chameshet elafim (five thousand), how many baskets of shirayim you picked up? And they say to him, Shneym Asar. 
And when I offered the beziat halechem over the shevah (seven) for the arbaat haalafim (four thousand), how many baskets full of shirayim did you pick up? And they say to him, Shiva. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was saying to them, Do you not yet have binah? 
And they come to Beit-Tzaidah. And they bring to him an ivver (blind man), and entreated him to touch him. 
And having grasped the hand of the ivver, he took him outside the shtetl; and, having put spittle on his eyes, and having laid hands upon him, he was questioning him, Do you see anything? 
And after looking up, the ivver was saying, I see bnei Adam — they look like trees walking! 
Then again Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach placed his hands upon his eyes; and the man looked intently and was restored, and was seeing everything clearly. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach sent the man to his bais, saying, Do not even enter the shtetl. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach went out along with his talmidim, to the shtetlach of Caesarea Philippi; and on the way he was questioning his talmidim, saying to them, Who do Bnei Adam say that I am? 
And the talmidim spoke to him, saying, Yochanan of the tevilah of teshuva; and others say, Eliyahu HaNavi; but others, One of the neviim. 
And he continued questioning them, But who do you say that I am? In reply, Kefa says to him, You are the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And he warned them to tell no one about him. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach began to teach them that it is necessary for the Bar Enosh to suffer many things and to be rejected by the Zekenim and the Rashei Hakohanim (the Chief Priests) and the Sofrim (Scribes), and to be killed and after his histalkus (passing) after Shlosha Yamim (Three Days) to undergo the Techiyas HaMoshiach. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was speaking about the matter plainly. And Shim'on Kefa took him aside and began to rebuke him. 
But having turned around and having looked at his talmidim, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach rebuked Kefa, and says, Get behind me, HaSatan; for you are not putting your machshavot (thoughts) on the interests of Hashem but on that of Bnei Adam. 
And having summoned the multitude along with his talmidim, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, If anyone wishes to follow after me, let him make denial of himself, and take up his etz shel mesiros nefesh (tree of self-sacrifice), and follow me. 
For whoever wishes to save his nefesh will lose it; but whoever loses his nefesh for my sake and for the sake of the Besuras HaGeulah will save it. 
For how is the ben Adam (human being) benefited if he gain the kol haOlam, and forfeit his neshamah? 
For what shall a ben Adam give in exchange for his neshamah? 
For whoever feels bushah (shame) regarding me and my devarim in this dor rah umnaef (evil and adulterous generation), the Bar Enosh will also be ashamed of him, when Moshiach comes in the kavod of his Av with the malachim hakedoshim. 
