Moshiachʼs Letter through the Shliach Sha'ul to Timotiyos (II).
Chapter 1.
Sha'ul, a Shliach of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua birtzon Hashem(by the will of G-d), according to the havtachah haChayyim (promise of Life) in Moshiach Yehoshua. 
To Timotiyos, beni haahuv (my beloved son). Chesed Hashem, Rachamim Hashem and Shalom Hashem from Elohim Avinu and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua Adoneinu. 
Modeh Ani (I give thanks) to Hashem whom I offer avodas hakodesh service with a clear matzpun — as did the Avot of me — when I remember you constantly in my tefillos. 
As I remember your weeping, I want to see you, that I may be filled with simcha. 
I remember your genuine emunah, which dwelt first in Lois your savtah (grandmother, bobe) and in your Em, Eunice, and I have been persuaded dwells also in you. 
For which reason I remind you to meorer (rekindle) the matnat Elohim, (the gift of Hashem) which is in you through my conferring of s'michah (ordination). 
For Hashem did not bestow upon us a ruach of pachad (terror), but of gevurah (miraculous power) and of ahavah (love) and of sound havchanah (judgment). 
Do not, therefore, be ashamed of the eidus of Adoneinu nor of me, his asir (prisoner), but suffer together with me for the Besuras HaGeulah in the ko'ach of Hashem, 
The one having granted us Yeshu'at Eloheinu and having called us with a kri'ah kedoshah (holy calling), not according to the ma'asim of us but according to his own tachlis (purpose) and chesed having been given to us in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua before Yamim HaOlam, 
But having been manifested now through the appearing of Moshieinu Moshiach Yehoshua, who nullified death and also brought Chayyim and alkillayon (incorruptibility) to light through the Besuras HaGeulah, 
For which I was appointed a karoz (herald), a maggid (darshan, preacher), a Shliach and a rabbi (teacher). 
It is because of these things also that I suffer. But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed and I have been persuaded that He is able to stand shomer, guarding until HaYom HaHu the pikkadon (deposit) entrusted to Him by me. 
Follow the pattern of sound orthodox Jewish devarim which you heard from me, in emunah and ahavah in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
Stand shomer over the orthodox Jewish pikkadon entrusted to you through the Ruach Hakodesh dwelling in us. 
Of this you have da'as: all the ones in Asia, of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes, turned away from me. 
May Hashem grant rachamim to the bais of Onesiphorus, because often he refreshed me and he was not ashamed of my sharsherot. 
For, when he was in Rome, he sought me with zerizut and found me. 
May Adoneinu grant to him to find rachamim from Hashem in HaYom HaHu. Also, while in Ephesus in how many ways he did avodas hakodesh you know very well. 
