MARKOS.
Chapter 10.
And from there, having got up, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach comes into the region of Yehudah and on the other side of the Yarden, and again multitudes gather to him, and as was his minhag (custom), once more he was teaching them torah. 
And, having approached, the Perushim, testing him, were asking him, Is it mutar for a man to give a get (divorce) to his wife? 
But in reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, What mitzvah (commandment) did Moshe give you? 
And they said, Moshe Rabbeinu made it mutar (permissible) for a man to write SEFER KERITUT (a get, bill of divorcement) and to send her away (dismiss her, divorce her). 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Because of the hardness of your levavot, he wrote you this mitzvah. 
But in the beginning of the Beriah (Creation) ZACHAR UNEKEVAH BARA OTAM (Hashem made them male and female). 
AL KEN YAAZAV ISH ES AVIV V'ES IMMO V'DAVAK BISHTO (Because of this, a man will leave his father and his mother and he will be joined to his isha wife), 
V'HAYU L'VASAR ECHAD, (and the two will be one flesh). For this reason, they are no longer Shnayim but Basar Echad. 
Therefore, what Hashem has joined together, let no ben Adam separate. 
And in the bais, the talmidim began to question Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach about this again. 
And he says to them, Whoever gives a get to his isha and marries another, commits niuf (adultery) against his isha. 
And if she gets a get (divorce) from her baal (husband) and marries another, she commits niuf (adultery). 
And they brought to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach yeladim that he might lay his hands on them. But the talmidim rebuked them. 
And having seen this, he became displeased and indignant, and said to his talmidim, Permit the yeladim to come to me, and do not hinder them, for of such as these is the Malchut Hashem. 
Omein, I say to you, Whoever is not mekabel Malchut Hashem(receives the Kingdom of G-d) as a yeled would be mekabel Malchut Hashem, will by no means enter it. 
And having taken the yeladim into his arms, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach laid his hands on them and made a bracha over them. 
And as Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was setting out to travel, one running and falling down before him, was asking him, Rabbi haTov, what mitzvah may I do that I might inherit Chayyei Olam? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Why do you call me tov? No one tov except echad, Elohim, nu? 
You have daas of the mitzvot, the Aseres HaDibros (The Decalogue), LO TIRTZACH, LO TINAF, LO TIGNOV, LO TAANEH VREIACHA ED SHAKER, KABEID ES AVICHA VES IMMECHA (Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not bear false witness (do not defraud), honor your father and mother.) 
And the man was saying to him, Rabbi, from kinder-yoren I have been frum and shomer mitzvot, keeping all these things. 
And looking at him and having ahavah for his neshamah, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to him, One thing you lack: go and sell all your possessions and give to the aniyim, and you will have otzar (treasure) in Shomayim; and come, follow me. 
But at the dvar HaMoshiach, his face turned gloomy and he departed with agmat nefesh (grief), for he had many possessions. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, looking around, says to his talmidim, How difficult it will be for the oisher to enter the Malchut Hashem! 
And the talmidim were amazed at his devarim. But again Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach in reply, says to them, Yeladim, how difficult it is to enter into the Malchut Hashem. 
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for an oisher (rich person) to enter the Malchut Hashem. 
And they were even more amazed, saying to one another, Then who with the Yeshu'at Eloheinu is able to be saved? 
Having looked at them, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says, With Bnei Adam this is impossible, but not with Hashem. For all things are possible with Hashem. 
Shim'on Kefa began to say to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Hinei! We left everything and have followed you! 
Yehoshua said, Omein, I say to you, there is no one who left bais or achim or achayot or em or abba or banim or sadot (fields) for the sake of me and for the sake of the Besuras HaGeulah, 
But that he shall receive a hundredfold now in the Olam Hazeh, batim (houses) and achim and achayot and imahot and banim and sadot with redifot (persecutions); and in Olam Habah, Chayyei Olam. 
And many Rishonim (First Ones) will be Acharonim (Last Ones); and the Acharonim, will be Rishonim. 
And they were on the derech making aliyah leregel (pilgrimage) to Yerushalayim, and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was leading out, walking ahead of them, and they were astounded, and the ones following were afraid. And again Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach took the Shneym Asar aside for a yechidus and began to tell them what was to happen to him, 
Saying, Hinei, we are making aliyah leregel to Yerushalayim, and the Bar Enosh will be betrayed to the Rashei Hakohanim and the Sofrim and they will condemn him with onesh mavet (death penalty) and will hand him over to the Goyim. 
And they will mock him and spit on him and scourge him and will kill him, and after his histalkus (passing), on Yom HaShlishi, he in his Techiyas HaMoshiach from HaMesim will stand up alive again. 
And Ya'akov and Yochanan, the banim of Zavdai, approached Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, saying to him, Rebbe, we wish that whatever bakosha we may ask you, you may do for us. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, What do you wish me to do for you? 
And they said to him, Grant to us that one may sit limin (at the right hand) of you and one lismol (at the left hand) in your kavod. 
But he said to them, You do not have daas of what you ask. Are you able to drink the kos which I drink or to undergo my mikveh? 
And they said to him, We are able. And he said to them, The kos which I drink you shall drink; and you shall have the mikveh in which I am submerged. 
But to sit limin or lismol of me is not mine to grant, but for the ones for whom it has been prepared. 
And hearing this, the Asarah (Ten) became indignant with Ya'akov and Yochanan. 
And having summoned them, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, You have daas that among the Goyim those whom they recognize as their moshlim (rulers) domineer them and their Gedolim exercise authority over them. 
However, it is not so among you. He who wishes to become gadol among you must be your mesharet. 
And whoever wishes to be first among you must be eved of all. 
For even the Bar Enosh did not come to be served but to serve and to give his NEFESH as a kofer (ransom, pedut) LARABBIM (for many, for the Geulah Redemption of many). 
And they come to Yericho. And as Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was going forth from Yericho with his talmidim and a great multitude, Bar-Timai, an ivver, a poor betler (beggar), was sitting beside the road. 
And when he heard that it was Yehoshua from Natzeret coming, he began to cry out and to shout, Ben Dovid Yehoshua, chaneini! 
And many were rebuking him that he should shekit, but he kept crying out all the more, Ben Dovid, chaneini! 
Having stopped, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Summon him here. And they called the ivver, saying to him, Chazak! Cheer up! He is calling you! 
And having tossed aside his kaftan, and having jumped up, he came to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And in reply, Yehoshua said, What do you wish that I may do for you? And the ivver said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Rabboni, that I may see. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Go. Your emunah has brought you tikkun (restored you). And ofen ort (immediately) he regained his sight and he began following Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach baderech (on the road). 
