DEVARIM.
Chapter 31.
And Moshe went and spoke these devarim unto kol Yisroel. 
And he said unto them, I am me'ah v'esrim shanah today; I can no more go out and come in; also Hashem hath said unto me, Thou shalt not go over this Yarden. 
Hashem Eloheicha, He will go over before thee, and He will make shmad these Goyim from before thee, and thou shalt dispossess them; and Yehoshua (see Neh 8:17 for Aramaic form, Yeshua), he shall go over before thee, as Hashem hath said. 
And Hashem shall do unto them as He did to Sichon and to Og, melachim of the Emori, and unto the land of them, whom He made shmad. 
And Hashem shall give them up before your face, that ye may do unto them according unto kol hamitzvot which I have commanded you. 
Be strong and of good courage, fear not, nor be afraid of their faces; for Hashem Eloheicha, He it is that doth go with thee; He will not fail thee, nor abandon thee. 
And Moshe called unto Yehoshua, and said unto him in the sight of kol Yisroel, Chazak! (be strong) and of a good courage; for thou must go with this people unto Ha'Aretz which Hashem hath sworn unto their avot to give them; and thou shalt cause them to inherit it. 
And Hashem, He it is that doth go before thee; He will be with thee, He will not fail thee, neither abandon thee: fear not, neither be dismayed. 
And Moshe wrote this torah, and delivered it unto the kohanim, the Bnei Levi, which bore the Aron Brit Hashem and unto kol Ziknei Yisroel. 
And Moshe commanded them, saying, At the end of every shevah shanim, in the mo'ed (appointed time) of the shnat hashemittah (year of release), in Chag HaSukkot, 
When kol Yisroel is come to appear before Hashem Eloheicha in the place which He shall choose, thou shalt read this torah before kol Yisroel in their hearing. 
Gather the people together, anashim and nashim, and banim, and ger that is within thy she'arim, in order that they may hear, and that they may learn, and fear Hashem Eloheichem, and be shomer to do kol divrei hatorah hazot; 
And that their banim, which have not known anything, may hear, and learn to fear Hashem Eloheichem, as long as ye live in ha'adamah whither ye go over Yarden to possess it. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Behold, thy yamim approach that thou must die; call Yehoshua, and present yourselves in the Ohel Mo'ed, that I may give him a charge. And Moshe and Yehoshua went, and presented themselves in the Ohel Mo'ed. 
And Hashem appeared in the Ohel in an ammud anan (pillar of cloud); and the ammud anan stood over the petach (entrance) of the Ohel. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Behold, thou shalt sleep with Avoteicha; and this people will rise up, and play the harlot going after the elohei nekhar ha'aretz (g-ds of the foreigners of the land), whither they go to be among them, and will forsake Me, and break My Brit which I have cut them. 
Then My anger shall be kindled against them in Yom Hahu, and I will forsake them, and I will hide My face from them, and they shall be devoured, and ra'ot rabbot (many evils) and tzarot (troubles) shall befall them; so that they will say in Yom Hahu, Are not these evils come upon us, because Elohai is not among us? 
And I will surely hide My face in Yom Hahu for kol hara'ah which they shall have done, in that they are turned unto elohim acherim. 
Now therefore write ye this shirah for you, and teach it the Bnei Yisroel; put it in their mouths, in order that this shirah may be an ed (witness) for Me against the Bnei Yisroel. 
For when I shall have brought them into ha'adamah which I swore unto Avotav (their fathers), zavat cholov u'devash (that floweth with milk and honey); and they shall have eaten and filled themselves, and grown fat; then will they turn unto elohim acherim, and serve them, and provoke Me, and break My Brit. 
And it shall come to pass, when ra'ot rabbot and tzarot are befallen them, that this shirah shall testify against them as an ed (witness); for it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their zera; for I know their yetzer (inclination) in which they go about, even now, before I have brought them into ha'aretz which I swore. 
Moshe therefore wrote this shirah on that day, and taught it the Bnei Yisroel. 
And he gave Yehoshua ben Nun a charge, and said, Chazak! And of a good courage; for thou shalt bring the Bnei Yisroel into Ha'Aretz which I swore unto them; and I will be with thee. 
And it came to pass, when Moshe had made an end of writing the divrei HaTorah hazot in a sefer, until they were finished, 
That Moshe commanded the Levi'im, which bore the Aron Brit Hashem, saying, 
Take this sefer haTorah, and put it at the side of the Aron Brit Hashem Eloheichem, that it may be there for an ed (witness) against thee. 
For I know thy meri (rebellion), and thy oref hakasheh (stiff neck); behold, while I am yet alive with you today, ye have been mamrim (rebellious) against Hashem; and how much more after my death! 
Gather unto me kol ziknei shvatim of you, and your shoterim, that I may speak these devarim in their hearing, and call Shomayim and Ha'Aretz to record as witnesses against them. 
For I know that after my death ye will utterly corrupt yourselves, and turn aside from HaDerech which I have commanded you; and hara'ah will befall you in the acharim hayamim; because ye will do rah (evil) in the sight of Hashem, to provoke Him to anger through the work of your hands. 
And Moshe spoke in the ears of kol Kahal Yisroel the divrei hashirah hazot (words of this song), until they were ended. 
