VAYIKRA.
Chapter 8.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Take Aharon and his Banim with him, and the garments, and the shemen hamishchah (anointing oil), and a bull for the chattat (sin offering), and two rams, and a basket of matzot; 
And gather thou Kol HaEdah together unto the entrance of the Ohel Mo'ed. 
And Moshe did as Hashem commanded him; and HaEdah (the Assembly) was gathered together unto the entrance of the Ohel Mo'ed. 
And Moshe said unto HaEdah, This is the thing which Hashem commanded to be done. 
And Moshe brought Aharon and his Banim, and immersed them with mayim. 
And he put upon him the Kesones, and girded him with the Avnet (Sash), and clothed him with the Me'il (Robe), and put the Ephod upon him, and he girded him with the Cheishev (Belt) of the Ephod, and fastened it unto him therewith. 
And he put the Choshen (Breastplate) upon him; also he put in the Choshen the Urim and the Tummim. 
And he put the Mitznefet (Turban) upon his head; also upon the Mitznefet (Turban) toward his face did he put the Tzitz HaZahav, the Nezer Hakodesh (Holy Diadem); as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And Moshe took the Shemen HaMishchah, and anointed the Mishkan (Tabernacle) and all that was therein and he set them apart as kodesh. 
And he sprinkled thereof upon the Mizbe'ach seven times, and anointed the Mizbe'ach and all its utensils, both the Kiyor (Laver) and its stand, to set them apart as kodesh. 
And he poured of the Shemen HaMishchah upon Aharonʼs head, and anointed him, to set him apart as kodesh. 
And Moshe brought the Bnei Aharon, and put Kuttonot upon them, and girded them with Sashes, and put Migba'ot (headbands) upon them; as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And he brought the bull for the chattat (sin offering); and Aharon and his Banim laid their hands upon the head of the bull for the chattat (sin offering). 
And he slaughtered (shachat) it; and Moshe took the dahm, and put it upon the horns of the Mizbe'ach around with his forefinger, and purified the Mizbe'ach, and poured the dahm at the base of the Mizbe'ach, and set it apart as kodesh, to make kapporah for it. 
And he took all the chelev (fat) that was upon the innards, and the diaphragm above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their chelev (fat), and Moshe burned it upon the Mizbe'ach. 
But the bull, and its hide, its basar, and its dung, he burned with eish outside the machaneh; as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And he brought the ram for the olah (burnt offering); and Aharon and his Banim laid their hands upon the head of the ram. 
And he slaughtered (shachat) it; and Moshe sprinkled the dahm upon the Mizbe'ach around. 
And he cut the ram into pieces; and Moshe burned the head, and the pieces, and the chelev (fat). 
And he washed the innards and the legs in mayim; and Moshe burned the whole ram upon the Mizbe'ach; it was an olah for a re'ach nicho'ach, and an offering made by eish unto Hashem; just as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And he brought the other ram, the ram of ordination; and Aharon and his Banim laid their hands upon the head of the ram. 
And he slaughtered (shachat) it; and Moshe took of the dahm of it, and put it upon the lobe of Aharonʼs right ear, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the bohen of his right foot. 
And he brought Aharonʼs Banim, and Moshe put of the dahm upon the lobe of their right ear, and upon the thumbs of their right hands, and upon the bohen of their right feet: and Moshe sprinkled the dahm upon the Mizbe'ach around. 
And he took the chelev (fat), and the tail, and all the chelev (fat) that was upon the innards, and the diaphragm above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their chelev (fat), and the right thigh: 
And out of the basket of matzot, that was before Hashem, he took one challat matzot, and a loaf of oiled lechem, and one wafer, and put them on the chalavim, and upon the right thigh: 
And he put all upon Aharonʼs hands, and upon the hands of his Banim, and waved them for a tenufah (wave offering) before Hashem. 
And Moshe took them from off their hands, and burned them on the Mizbe'ach upon the olah (burnt offering); they were ordination offerings for a re'ach nicho'ach; it is an offering made by eish unto Hashem. 
And Moshe took the breast, and waved it for a tenufah before Hashem: it was Mosheʼs share of the ram of ordination; just as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And Moshe took of the shemen hamishchah, and of the dahm which was upon the Mizbe'ach, and sprinkled it upon Aharon, and upon his garments, and upon his Banim, and upon the garments of his Banim with him; and he set apart as kodesh Aharon, and his garments, and his Banim, and the garments of his Banim with him. 
And Moshe said unto Aharon and to his Banim, Cook the basar at the entrance of the Ohel Mo'ed: and there eat it with the lechem that is in the basket of ordination offerings, as I commanded, saying, Aharon and his Banim shall eat it. 
And that which remaineth of the basar and of the lechem shall ye burn with eish. 
And ye shall not go out of the entrance of the Ohel Mo'ed in seven days, until the days of your ordination be at an end: for seven days shall he fill your hand. 
As he hath done this day, so Hashem hath commanded to do, to make kapporah for you. 
Therefore shall ye abide at the entrance of the Ohel Mo'ed yomam valailah seven days and be shomer over the mishmeret (charge) of Hashem, that ye die not: for so I have been commanded. 
So Aharon and his Banim did all things which Hashem commanded by the hand of Moshe. 
