BERESHIS.
Chapter 32.
And early in the boker (morning) Lavan rose up, and kissed his banim and his banot, and made on them a brocha; and Lavan departed, and returned unto his makom. 
And Ya'akov went on his derech, and the malachim of Elohim met him. 
And when Ya'akov saw them, he said, This is Mahaneh Elohim; and he called the shem of that makom (place) Machanayim. 
And Ya'akov sent malachim before him to Esav achiv unto Eretz Se'ir, the country of Edom. 
And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto adoni Esav; Thy eved Ya'akov saith thus, I have sojourned with Lavan, and stayed there until now; 
And I have shor (oxen), and chamor, tzon, and eved, and shifchah; and I have sent to tell adoni, that I may find chen (grace) in thy sight. 
And the malachim returned to Ya'akov, saying, We came to Esav achicha, and also he cometh to meet thee, and arba me'ot ish with him. 
Then Ya'akov was greatly afraid and distressed; and he divided HaAm that was with him, and the tzon, and bakar, and the gemalim, into two machanot; 
And said, If Esav come to the one machaneh, and attack it, then the other machaneh which is left shall escape. 
And Ya'akov said, O Elohei Avi Avraham, and Elohei Avi Yitzchak, Hashem which saidst unto me, Shuv l'aretzecha and to thy moledet (kindred), and I will deal well with thee; 
I am not worthy of the least of all the chasadim, and of all the emes, which Thou hast showed unto Thy eved; for with my makal (rod, staff) I passed over this Yarden; and now I am become two machanot. 
Save me, now, from the yad achi, from the yad Esav; for I fear him, lest he will come and attack me, em with banim. 
But Thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy zera as the chol of the yam, which cannot be numbered for multitude. 
And he spent there that same night; and took of that which came to his yad a minchah for Esav achiv; 
Two hundred female goats, and twenty male goats, two hundred rechelim (ewes), and twenty eilim (rams), 
Thirty nursing gemalim with their colts, forty parot (cows), and ten parim (bulls), twenty female donkeys, and ten male donkeys. 
And he delivered them into the yad of his avadim, every herd by itself; and said unto his avadim, Pass over before me, and keep a space between herd and herd. 
And he commanded the rishon, saying, When Esav achi meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? And to where goest thou? And whose are these animals before thee? 
Then thou shalt say, They are of thy eved Ya'akov; it is a minchah sent unto adoni Esav; and, hinei, also he is behind us. 
And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all that followed the adarim (herds), saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esav, when ye find him. 
And say ye moreover, Hinei, thy eved Ya'akov is behind us. For he said, Akhapperah (I will appease, cover) his face with the minchah that goeth ahead of me, and afterward I will see his face; perhaps he will accept me. 
So went the minchah (present) over ahead of him; but he himself stayed balailah in the machaneh. 
And he rose up that night, and took his two nashim and his two shifchot, and his eleven yeladim, and passed over the ma'avar (ford) Yabbok. 
And he took them, and sent them over the stream, and sent over all that he had. 
And Ya'akov was left by himself; and there wrestled an ish with him until the shachar (dawn, sunup). 
And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he struck his hip socket; so Ya'akovʼs hip socket dislocated while he wrestled with him. 
And he said, Let me go, for shachar breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, unless thou make a berakhah upon me. 
And he said unto him, What is shemecha? And he said, Ya'akov. 
And he said, Shimcha shall be called no more Ya'akov, but Yisroel: for sarita im Elohim (yisrah=to prevail + El=G-d = Yisroel ye have striven with Elohim) and with anashim, and hast overcome. 
And Ya'akov asked him, and said, Tell me, now, shemecha. And he said, Why is it that thou dost ask after shmi? And he made a brocha upon him there. 
And Ya'akov called the shem of the makom (place) Peniel (Face of G-d): for I have seen Elohim panim el panim, and my nefesh is saved. 
And as he passed over Penuel the shemesh rose upon him, and he limped upon his hip. 
Therefore the Bnei Yisroel eat not of the sinew of the thigh vein (gid hanasheh, sciatic nerve) which is upon the hip socket, unto this day; because he touched the hip socket of Ya'akov in the sinew of the thigh vein. 
