HOSHEA.
Chapter 9.
Rejoice not, O Yisroel, for joy, as other people; for thou hast gone a-whoring from thy G-d, thou hast loved for hire upon every threshing floor. 
The floor and the wine-press shall not feed them, and the tirosh shall fail in her. 
They shall not dwell in Hashemʼs land; but Ephrayim shall return to Mitzrayim, and they shall eat unclean things in Assyria. 
They shall not offer yayin offerings to Hashem, neither shall they be pleasing unto Him; their sacrifices shall be unto them as the bread of mourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted; for their bread shall be for their own nefesh and shall not come into the Beis Hashem. 
What will ye do in the Yom Mo'ed, and in the Yom Chag Hashem? 
For, lo, they are gone because of destruction; Mitzrayim shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them; nettles shall possess their valuables of kesef; thorns shall be in their tents. 
The days of pekudah (visitation for divine punishment) are come, the yamim of recompence are come; Yisroel shall know it. The navi is a fool, the ish haruach (spiritual man) is meshuga, for the multitude of thine iniquity and great hatred. 
The watchman of Ephrayim was with my G-d; but the navi is a snare of a fowler in all his ways, and hatred in the bais of his G-d. 
They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the yamim of Giv'ah; therefore He will remember their iniquity, He will visit their sins. 
I found Yisroel like grapes in the midbar; I saw your avot as the bikkurah in the fig tree at her first season; but they went to Ba'al-Pe'or, and separated themselves unto that shame; and their abominations were according as they loved. 
As for Ephrayim, their kavod shall fly away like a bird, from the birth, and from the beten (womb), and from the conception. 
Though they bring up their banim, yet will I bereave them, that there shall not be a man left: yea, woe also to them when I depart from them! 
Ephrayim, as I saw Tzor, is planted in a pleasant place; but Ephrayim shall bring forth his banim to the murderer. 
Give them, O Hashem. What wilt Thou give? Give them a miscarrying rechem (womb) and dry breasts. 
All their wickedness is in Gilgal; for there I hated them; for the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of Mine bais, I will love them no more; all their sarim (princes) are sorerim (rebels). 
Ephrayim is struck, their shoresh (root) is dried up, they shall bear no fruit; yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay even the beloved fruit of their beten (womb). 
My G-d will cast them away, because they did not pay heed unto Him; and they shall be nodedim (wanderers) among the Goyim. 
