DIVREY HAYAMIM BAIS.
Chapter 7.
Now when Sh'lomo had made an end of davening, the eish came down from Shomayim, and consumed the olah and the zevakhim; and the kavod Hashem filled HaBeis. 
And the Kohanim could not enter into the Beis Hashem, because the kavod Hashem had filled the Beis Hashem. 
And when all the Bnei Yisroel saw how the eish came down, and the kavod Hashem upon HaBeis, they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the ritzpah (floor, pavement) and worshiped, and gave thanks to Hashem, saying, Ki tov ki l'olam chasdo (For He is good; for His mercy endureth forever). 
Then HaMelech and kol HaAm offered zevach before Hashem. 
And HaMelech Sh'lomo offered zevach of 22,000 bakar, and 120,000 tzon; so HaMelech and kol HaAm dedicated the Beis HaElohim. 
And the Kohanim stood at their mishmerot (watches); the Levi'im also with kelei shir Hashem, (musical instruments of Hashem) which Dovid HaMelech had made to give thanks to Hashem — ki l'oham chasdo (for His mercy endureth forever) — whenever Dovid praised by their means; and the Kohanim sounded khatzotzrot (trumpets) opposite them, and kol Yisroel stood. 
Moreover Sh'lomo set apart as kodesh the toch hekhatzer (center of the courtyard) that was in front of the Beis Hashem; for there he offered HaOlot and the chelvei hashelamim (fat of peace offerings), because the Mizbe'ach hanechoshet which Sh'lomo had made was not able to receive the Olot, and the Mincha, and HaChalavim (the fats). 
Also at the same time Sh'lomo kept the Chag shivat yamim, and kol Yisroel with him, a Kahal Gadol Me'od, from the Levo (Approach) Chamat unto the Wadi Mitzrayim. 
And on the Yom HaShemini they held an Atzeret (solemn assembly); for they kept the chanukat HaMizbe'ach (dedication of the altar), shivat yamim, and the Chag shivat yamim. 
And on the three and twentieth day of the seventh month he sent HaAm away into their ohalim joyful and tovei lev for the goodness that Hashem had showed unto Dovid, and to Sh'lomo, and to Yisroel His Am. 
Thus Sh'lomo finished the Beis Hashem, and the Beis HaMelech; and all that came into the lev Sh'lomo to do in the Beis Hashem, and in his own palace, he prosperously effected. 
And Hashem appeared to Sh'lomo balailah, and said unto him, I have heard thy tefillah, and have chosen this makom for Myself for a Beis Zevach. 
When I shut up Shomayim that there be no matar, or when I command the locusts to devour HaAretz, or when I send dever among Ami (My People); 
If Ami, which are called by Shmi, shall humble themselves, and daven, and seek my face, and turn from their derakhim hara'im (wicked ways), then will I hear from Shomayim, and will forgive their chattat, and will heal their land. 
Now Mine eyes shall be open, and Mine ears attentive unto the tefillah that is made in Makom HaZeh. 
For now have I chosen and set apart as kodesh HaBeis HaZeh, that Shmi may be there ad olam, and Mine eyes and Mine lev shall be there kol hayamim. 
And as for thee, if thou wilt walk before Me, as Dovid Avicha walked, and do according to all that I have commanded thee, and shalt observe My chukkot and My mishpatim; 
Then will I establish the kisse of thy Malchut, just as I have covenanted with Dovid Avicha, saying, Lo yikaret lecha ish moshel b'Yisroel. 
But if ye turn away, and forsake My chukkot and My mitzvot, which I have set before you, and shall go and serve elohim acherim, and worship them, 
Then will I uproot them out of My Adamah which I have given them; and HaBeis HaZeh, which I have set apart as kodesh for Shmi, will I cast out of My sight, and will make it to be a Mashal (byword) and an object of ridicule among Kol haAmim. 
And HaBeis HaZeh, which is elyon, shall be an astonishment to every one that passeth by it; so that he shall say, Why hath Hashem done thus unto HaAretz HaZot, and unto HaBeis Hazeh? 
And it shall be answered, Because they forsook Hashem Elohei Avoteihem, Who brought them forth out of Eretz Mitzrayim, and they laid hold on elohim acherim, and worshiped them, and served them; therefore hath He brought all this ra'ah upon them. 
