SHEMOT.
Chapter 6.
Then Hashem said unto Moshe, Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh; for through a yad chazakah shall he let them go, and with a yad chazakah shall he drive them out of his land. 
And Elohim spoke unto Moshe, and said unto him, I am Hashem; 
And I appeared unto Avraham, unto Yitzchak, and unto Ya'akov, as El Shaddai, but by My Shem Hashem I did not make Myself known to them. 
And I have also established My brit (covenant) with them, to give them Eretz Kena'an, the land of their sojourning, wherein they sojourned. 
And I have also heard the groaning of the Bnei Yisroel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage; and I have remembered My brit (covenant). 
Therefore say unto the Bnei Yisroel, I am Hashem, and I will bring you out from under the sivlot Mitzrayim, and I will free you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched out zero'a, and with mishpatim gedolim: 
And I will take you to Me for a people, and I will be to you Elohim; and ye shall know that I am Hashem Eloheichem, which bringeth you out from under the sivlot Mitzrayim. 
And I will bring you in unto HaAretz, concerning the which I did lift up My hand to swear to give it to Avraham, to Yitzchak, and to Ya'akov; and I will give it to you for a morashah (heritage); I am Hashem. 
And Moshe spoke so unto the Bnei Yisroel; but they did not listen unto Moshe because of their kotzer ruach (shortness of spirit, broken spirit), and for avodah kesheh (cruel bondage). 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Go in, speak unto Pharaoh Melech Mitzrayim, that he let the Bnei Yisroel go out of his land. 
And Moshe spoke before Hashem, saying, See, the Bnei Yisroel have not paid heed unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, who am of oral sefatayim (uncircumcised lips, stumbling speech, sealed lips)? 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe and unto Aharon, and gave them a charge unto the Bnei Yisroel, and unto Pharaoh Melech Mitzrayim, to bring the Bnei Yisroel out of Eretz Mitzrayim. 
These are the Rashei Bais Avotam: The Bnei Reuven the bechor Yisroel; Chanokh, and Pallu, Chetzron, and Carmi: these are the mishpokhot of Reuven. 
And the Bnei Shim'on; Yemuel, and Yamin, and Ohad, and Yachin, and Tzochar, and Sha'ul ben of HaKena'anit: these are the mishpokhot of Shim'on. 
And these are the shemot Bnei Levi according to their toldot; Gershon, and Kohat, and Merari: and the years of the life of Levi were a hundred thirty and seven shanah. 
The Bnei Gershon; Livni, and Shime'i, according to their mishpokhot. 
And the Bnei Kohat; Amram, and Yitzhar, and Chevron, and Uzziel: and the years of the life of Kehat were a hundred thirty and three shanah. 
And the Bnei Merari; Machli and Mushi: these are the mishpokhot of Levi according to their toledot. 
And Amram took him Yocheved his fatherʼs sister to wife; and she bore him Aharon and Moshe: and the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty and seven shanah. 
And the Bnei Yitzhar; Korach, Nepheg, and Zichri. 
And the Bnei Uzziel; Mishael, Eltzaphan, and Sitri. 
And Aharon took him Elisheva, bat Amminadav, achot Nachshon, to wife; and she bore him Nadav, and Avihu, El'azar and Itamar. 
And the Bnei Korach; Assir, and Elkanah, and Aviasaph: these are the mishpokhot of the Korchi. 
And El'azar ben Aharon took him one of the banot Putiel to wife; and she bore him Pinchas: these are the Rashei Avot HaLevi'im according to their mishpokhot. 
These are that Aharon and Moshe, to whom Hashem said, Bring out the Bnei Yisroel from Eretz Mitzrayim according to their tzve'os. 
These are they which spoke to Pharaoh Melech Mitzrayim, to bring out the Bnei Yisroel from Mitzrayim: these are that Moshe and Aharon. 
And it came to pass on the day when Hashem spoke unto Moshe in Eretz Mitzrayim, 
That Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, I am Hashem: speak thou unto Pharaoh Melech Mitzrayim all that I say unto thee. 
And Moshe said before Hashem, See, I am of oral sefatayim, and why should Pharaoh pay heed unto me. 
