SHEMOT.
Chapter 34.
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Chisel thee two Luchot Avanim like the first ones; and I will write upon these Luchot the devarim that were on the Luchot HaRishonim, which thou broke. 
And be ready in the boker, and come up in the boker unto Mt.Sinai, and present thyself there to Me on the rosh HaHar. 
And no ish shall come up with thee, neither let any ish be seen throughout kol HaHar; neither let the tzon nor herd graze in front of that Har. 
And he chiseled two Luchot Avanim like the first ones; and Moshe rose up early in the boker, and went up unto Mt.Sinai, as Hashem had commanded him, and took in his yad the two Luchot Avanim. 
And Hashem descended in the anan, and stood with him there, and called out the Shem of Hashem. 
And Hashem passed by before him, and proclaimed, Hashem, Hashem El Rachum v'Channun, slow to anger, and abundant in chesed and emes, 
Preserving chesed for thousands, forgiving avon and pesha and chatta'ah, and by no means leaving the guilty unpunished; visiting the avon of the avot upon the banim, and upon the bnei banim, unto the third and to the fourth generation. 
And Moshe made haste, and bowed his head toward the ground, and worshiped. 
And he said, If now I have found chen in Thy sight, Adonoi, let Adonoi, now, go among us; although it is an Am Kesheh Oref; and forgive avoneinu and chattateinu, and take us for Thine nachalah. 
And He said, Hinei, I cut a brit; before all thy people I will do nifla'ot, such as have not been done in kol ha'aretz, nor in kol HaGoyim; and kol HaAm among which thou art shall see the ma'aseh Hashem; for it is a norah that I will do with thee. 
Be thou shomer over that which I command thee this day; hinei, I drive out before thee the Emori, and the Kena'ani, and the Chitti, and the Perizzi, and the Chivi, and the Yevusi. 
Be shomer over thyself, lest thou make a brit with the inhabitants of HaAretz whither thou goest, lest it be for a mokesh (snare) in the midst of thee; 
But ye shall destroy their mizbechot, break their matzebot, and cut down their asherah (sacred trees, poles); 
For thou shalt worship no el acher; for Hashem, Whose Shem is Jealous, is El Kanah; 
Lest thou make a brit with the inhabitants of HaAretz, and they go a-whoring after eloheihem, and do sacrifice unto eloheihem, and one invite thee, and thou eat of his zevach (sacrifice, i.e., participate in his pagan worship); 
And thou take of their banot unto thy banim, and their banot go a-whoring after their elohim, and make thy banim go a-whoring after their elohim. 
Thou shalt make thee no elohei massekhah. 
The Chag Hamatzot shalt thou be shomer over. Shivat yamim thou shalt eat matzot, as I commanded thee, in the mo'ed of the month Aviv; for in the month Aviv thou camest out from Mitzrayim. 
All that openeth the rechem (womb) is Mine; and every firstling among thy cattle, whether ox or seh, that is zachar. 
But the firstling of a donkey thou shalt redeem with a seh; and if thou redeem him not, then shalt thou break his neck. Kol bechor of thy banim thou shalt redeem. And none shall appear before Me empty. 
Sheshet yamim thou shalt work, but on the yom hashevi'i thou shalt rest; in plowing and in harvest thou shalt rest. 
And thou shalt observe Chag Shavu'os, with the firstfruits the ketzir chittim (wheat harvest), and the Chag HaAsif (Festival of Ingathering, Harvesttime) shall be at the tekufat hashanah (changing, turning of the year). 
Shalosh in the year shall all your men children appear before HaAdon Hashem Elohei Yisroel. 
For I will drive out the Goyim before thee, and enlarge thy borders; neither shall any man covet thy land, when thou shalt go up to appear before Hashem Eloheicha shalosh in the shanah. 
Thou shalt not offer the dahm of My zevach with chametz; neither shall the zevach of the Chag HaPesach be left overnight unto the boker. 
The reshit bikkurim of thy land thou shalt bring unto the Beis Hashem Eloheicha. Thou shalt not cook a kid in cholov immo. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Write thou these devarim; for according to these devarim I have cut a brit with thee and with Yisroel. 
And he was there with Hashem arba'im yom and arba'im lailah; he did neither eat lechem, nor drink mayim. And he wrote upon the Luchot the Divrei HaBrit (Words of the Covenant), the Aseres Hadevarim (Ten Commandments). 
And it came to pass, when Moshe came down from Mt. Sinai with the two Luchot HaEdut in the yad Moshe, when he came down from HaHar, that Moshe had no da'as that the ohr (skin) of his face had become radiant when he had spoken with Him. 
And when Aharon and kol Bnei Yisroel saw Moshe, hinei, the ohr (skin) of his face was radiant; and they were afraid to come near him. 
And Moshe called unto them; and Aharon and kol HaNesi'im of the Edah returned unto him; and Moshe spoke with them. 
And afterward kol Bnei Yisroel came near; and he gave them in commandment all that Hashem had spoken with him in Mt Sinai. 
When Moshe had finished speaking with them, he put a masveh (veil, mask) on his face. 
But when Moshe went in before Hashem to speak with Him, he took the masveh off, until he came out. And he came out, and spoke unto the Bnei Yisroel that which he was commanded. 
And the Bnei Yisroel saw the face of Moshe, that the ohr of the face of Moshe was radiant; and Moshe put the masveh upon his face again, until he went in to speak with Him. 
