HISGALUS.
Chapter 20.
And I saw a malach (an angel) coming down out of Shomayim having the mafte'ach (key) of the Tehom (Abyss) and a great chain in his hand, 
And he seized the Dragon, the NACHASH HaKadmoni, who is Malshin and HaSatan. And he bound him for elef shanim (one thousand years), 
And threw him into the Tehom (Abyss), and shut and sealed it over him that he could not deceive any more the Goyim until the elef shanim (thousand years) were completed. After these things it is necessary for him to be released a short time. 
And I saw kise'ot (thrones) and they sat on them and authority for mishpat (judgment) was given to them, and I saw the nefashot (souls) of the ones having been beheaded because of their edut (testimony) for Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and because of the dvar Hashem and for those who did not worship the Chayyah Beast, Anti-Moshiach nor its Atzav and did not receive the tav (mark) on the metsakh (forehead) and on their yad (hand), and they awakened to Chayyim (Life) and reigned with Moshiach for elef shanim (a thousand years). 
And the rest of the Mesim did not awaken to Chayyim (Life) until the elef shanim should be completed. This is the Techiyah HaRishonah (First Resurrection). 
Me'ushar and Kadosh (Blessed and Holy) is the one having a part in the Techiyah HaRishonah. On these ones the Mavet HaSheyni (the Second Death) does not have shilton (authority, samchut), but they will be kohanim of Hashem and of Moshiach, and will reign with him for elef shanim. 
And when the elef shanim are completed, HaSatan will be released from his beit hasohar (prison), 
And will go forth to deceive the Goyim in the four corners of ha'aretz, that is, Gog and Magog, to assemble them for milchamah (war); the mispar (number) of them is like the sand of the seashore. 
And they went up over the broad plain of the land and encircled the makhaneh (camp) of the Kedoshim and the Ir HaAhuvah (the beloved city) and Eish came down out of Shomayim and consumed them. 
And HaSatan, the one deceiving them, was cast into the Agam HaEish (fire) and gofrit (sulfur), where both the Chayyah Anti-Moshiach and the Navi Sheker (False Prophet) were, and they will be tormented yomam v'lailah l'Olemei Olamim (day and night forever and ever). 
And I saw a Kisse Lavan Gadol (a Great White Throne) and I saw the One sitting on it, from whose presence Ha'Aretz and Shomayim fled, and no place was found for them. 
And I saw the Mesim (dead persons), the ketanim and gedolim, having taken their stand before the Kisse (Throne) and Sfarim (Books) were opened and another Sefer was opened, which is the Sefer HaChayyim, and the Mesim were judged by the things having been written in the Sfarim, according to what they had done. 
And the Yam (Sea) gave up the Mesim in it, and Mavet, and She'ol gave up the Mesim in them, and they were judged, each one according to what they had done. 
And Mavet and She'ol were cast into the Agam HaEish (Lake of Fire). This is the Mavet HaSheyni (the Second Death), the Agam HaEish (the Lake of Fire). 
And if anyone was not found having been written in the Sefer HaChayyim, he was cast into the Agam HaEish. 
