YESHAYAH.
Chapter 50.
Thus saith Hashem: Where is the Sefer Keritut (Bill of Divorce) by which I sent your Em (Mother) away? Or which Nosheh (Creditor) of Mine is it to whom I have sold you into slavery? Behold, for your avonot (iniquities) have ye been sold, and for your peysha'im (rebellions) was your Em sent away. 
Why, when I came, was there no ish (man at all to respond)? When I called, was there none to answer? Is My Yad too short, that it cannot redeem? Or have I no ko'ach (power) to save? Behold, at My rebuke I dry up the yam (sea), I make the neharot (rivers) a midbar (desert); their dag (fish) stink, because there is no mayim, and die of tzama (thirst). 
I clothe Shomayim with blackness, and I make sackcloth their covering. 
Adonoi Hashem hath given Me the leshon limmudim(learned tongue of disciples), that I should know how to speak a devar (word, i.e., word of consolation) in season to him that is weary; He wakeneth baboker baboker (morning by morning), He wakeneth Mine ozen (ear) to hear as the limmudim (disciples, those being taught). 
Adonoi Hashem hath opened Mine ozen (ear), and I was not rebellious, neither did I turn back. 
I offered My gev (back) to them that deliver blows, and My lekhi (cheeks) to them that pulled out: I hid not My face from kelimot (humiliations, shame) and rok (spitting, saliva). 
For Adonoi Hashem will help Me; therefore shall I not be disgraced; therefore have I set My face as khalamish (flint See Lk 9:51), and I know that I shall not be ashamed. 
He that vindicateth is karov (near), who will contend with Me? Let us stand together. Who is Mine Ba'al Mishpat (Adversary in court, the one bringing charges)? Let him draw near to Me in court. 
See, Adonoi Hashem will help Me. Who is he that shall condemn Me? See, they all shall wear out like a beged (garment); the ahsh (moth) shall eat them. 
Who among you that feareth Hashem, that obeyeth the voice of His Eved, though he may have walked in chashekhim (darknesses), with no gleam of light for himself, let him trust B'Shem Hashem, and lean upon Elohav. 
See, all ye that kindle an eish (fire), ye that prepare for battle with zikot (flashing firebrands), walk in the light of the fire of your own making and among the zikot (flashing firebrands) that ye have set burning, and this shall ye have from My Yad; ye shall lie down in ma'atze'vah (torment, pain, grieving). 
