Philippians.
Chapter 4.
So then, my achim ahuvim whom I have a tshuka (longing) for, my simcha and crown, stand firm in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu. 
I appeal to Euodias and I appeal to Syntyche, think the same thing in Adoneinu. 
Yes, I ask also you, true yoke-fellow, assist these women who contended alongside me in the Besuras HaGeulah with both Clement and the rest of the fellow po'alim (workers) of mine, whose names are in the Sefer HaChayyim. 
Have simcha in Adoneinu always; again I will say it: Rejoice! 
Let your chassidus (piety) and sobriety be known to kol Bnei Adam; Moshiach Adoneinu is near. 
Be anxious in nothing, but in everything by tefillah and by techinnah (supplication) with hodayah (thanksgiving), let your requests be made known before Hashem, 
And the shalom Hashem, surpassing all binah (understanding), will guard your levavot and your machshavot (thoughts) in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
As to the rest, Achim b'Moshiach, whatever things are emes (truth), nichbad (noble), yashar (straight), tahor (clean), male No'am (full of pleasantness) and tiferet (beauty), whatever things are commendable, if there is any virtue, if any praise, think about these things. 
And that which you learned and you received and you heard and you saw in me, practice these and Elohei HaShalom will be with you. 
I had much simcha in Adoneinu that now at last you blossomed anew so as to think of me, for indeed you were thinking of me, but were lacking opportunity. 
Not that I refer to lack, for I have learned, in whatever circumstances I am, to be tzufrieden (content). 
I have da'as both to be humbled in anavah and I have da'as how to abound in everything. And in all things I have learned what is nistar (concealed, hidden, unseen), I have learned the secret of being filled and having hunger, of abounding and having lack. 
I can do all things in the One giving me ko'ach. 
Fort (nevertheless), you did well in entering into deveykus (communing with Hashem) through sharing in my Messianic yissurim (sufferings) with me. 
And also you Philippians have da'as, that in the beginning of the Besuras HaGeulah, when I went out from Macedonia, not one kehillah shared with me in an accounting of expenditures and receipts except you only. 
Indeed in Thessalonika both once and again you sent to my machsor (shortage). 
Not that I seek the matanah (gift), but I seek the p'ri increasing to your account. 
But I have all things and I abound; I have been filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things from you, a RE'ACH HANNICHOACH (a pleasant aroma), an acceptable, sacrifice well-pleasing to Hashem. 
And my G-d will fill every machsor (shortage, want) of yours according to his osher (riches) in Kavod in Moshiach Yehoshua. 
L'Elohim Avinu hakavod l'Olemei Olamim. Omein. (To G-d and our Father be glory forever and ever. Amen). 
Drishat Shalom (Kind Regards) to every Kadosh in Moshiach Yehoshua; the Achim b'Moshiach here with me send Drishat Shalom. 
All the Kedoshim send “Shalom” greetings, especially the Kedoshim in Caesarʼs household. 
The Chen v'Chesed of Adoneinu Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua be with your neshamah.
