YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 40.
The Davar that came to Yirmeyah from Hashem, after Nevuzaradan the captain of the imperial guard had released him from Ramah, when he had found him bound in chains among all of Yerushalayim and Yehudah of the Golus, which were being carried away captive unto Babylon. 
And the captain of the imperial guard took Yirmeyah, and said unto him, Hashem Eloheicha hath pronounced this ra'ah upon this place. 
Now Hashem hath brought it about, and done according as He hath said; because ye have sinned against Hashem, have not obeyed His voice, so Davar Hazeh is come upon you. 
And now, hinei, I loose thee this yom from the chains which were upon thine yad. If it seem good in thy eyes to come with me into Babylon, come; and I will look well unto thee; but if it seem ill unto thee to come with me into Babylon, forbear; hinei, kol ha'aretz is before thee: where it seemeth tov and yashar there for thee to go, go there. 
Now if you remain, he said, Go back also to Gedalyah ben Achikam ben Shaphan, whom Melech Bavel hath made governor over the cities of Yehudah, and dwell with him among the people; or go wheresoever it seemeth yashar unto thee to go. So the captain of the imperial guard gave him provision of food and a present, and let him go. 
Then went Yirmeyah unto Gedalyah ben Achikam to Mitzpah; and dwelt with him among the people that were left in ha'aretz. 
Now when all the officers of the forces which were in the fields, even they and their anashim, heard that Melech Bavel had made Gedalyahu ben Achikam governor in the land, and had committed unto him anashim, and nashim, and children, and of the poor of the land, of them that were not carried away captive to the Golus of Babylon; 
Then they came to Gedalyah to Mitzpah, even Yishmael ben Netanyah, and Yochanan and Yonatan the Bnei Kareach, and Serayah ben Tanchumet, and the Bnei Ephai the Netophati, and Yezanyah ben HaMa'akhati, they and their anashim. 
And Gedalyahu ben Achikam ben Shaphan swore an oath unto them and to their anashim, saying, Fear not to serve the Kasdim (Chaldeans); dwell in the land, and serve Melech Bavel, and it shall be well with you. 
As for me, hineni, I will dwell at Mitzpah, to serve the Kasdim (Chaldeans), which will come unto us; but ye, gather ye yayin, and kayitz (summer fruit), and shemen, and put them in your vessels, and dwell in your towns that ye took over. 
Likewise when kol HaYehudim that were in Moav, and among the Bnei Ammon, and in Edom, and that were in all the countries, heard that Melech Bavel had left a she'erit (remnant) of Yehudah, and that he had set over them Gedalyahu ben Achikam ben Shaphan, 
Then kol HaYehudim returned out of all places whither they were driven, and came to Eretz Yehudah, to Gedalyahu, unto Mitzpah, and gathered yayin and kayitz very much. 
Moreover Yochanan ben Kareach, and all the officers of the forces that were in the fields, came to Gedalyahu to Mitzpah, 
And said unto him, Dost thou certainly know that Ba'alis Melech Bnei Ammon hath sent Yishmael ben Netanyah to slay thee? But Gedalyahu ben Achikam believed them not. 
Then Yochanan ben Kareach spoke to Gedalyahu in Mitzpah baseter (secretly) saying, Let me go, and I will slay Yishmael ben Netanyah, and no man shall know it. Why should he slay thee, that all the Yehudim which are gathered unto thee should be scattered, and the she'erit in Yehudah perish? 
But Gedalyahu ben Achikam said unto Yochanan ben Kareach, Thou shalt not do this thing; for thou speakest sheker of Yishmael. 
