LUKAS.
Chapter 24.
But on Yom HaRishon, the first day of the shavua (week), very early in the boker, they went to the kever (tomb) bringing what spices they prepared. 
But they found the even (stone) having been rolled away from the kever (tomb), 
and, having entered, they did not find geviyyato(his body) of the Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu. 
It came about while they were perplexed about this, indeed, hinei, shnayim (two), who were garmented in dazzling robes, stood by them. 
And having become terrified, the nashim bowed their faces to the ground. They said to the nashim, Why are you seeking HaChai (the One living) among HaMesim? 
He is not here, he kam (stood up) litechiyyah (to come to life again). Have zikaron (recollection) how he spoke to you while he was still in the Galil, 
Saying, It is necessary for the Bar Enosh to be delivered over into the hands of anashim chote'im and to be talui al HaEtz(to be hanged on the Tree), and on HaYom HaShlishi to stand up alive again. 
And they remembered the words of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And having returned from the kever (tomb), they reported all these things to the Achad Asar (the Eleven) and to all the others. 
Now there were Miryam of Magdala and Yochanah and Miryam the Em (mother) of Ya'akov, and the others with them. They were telling the Moshiachʼs Shlichim these things, 
And these words of theirs appeared to the Moshiachʼs Shlichim as utter narrishkait, and the Shlichim had no emunah in what they said. 
Kefa got up and ran to the kever (tomb). And when he bent over, Kefa sees the tachrichim linen clothes only, and he departed wondering to himself with tzorich iyun (unresolved puzzlement) about the thing that had happened. 
And, hinei, shnayim (two) of them that same day were traveling to a shtetl being distant sixty stadia from Yerushalayim, a shtetl the name of which is Ammaus. 
And they were speaking to one another concerning all these things that had happened. 
And it came about while they were talking and discussing these things that also Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach himself had come near and was traveling along with them, 
But the eynayim (eyes) of them were prevented from recognizing Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And he said to them, What devarim (words) are these which you are exchanging with one another as you are walking along? And they stood with a look of agmat nefesh (tzubrochen, broken-hearted). 
And in reply one, Cleopas by name, said to him, Are you the only one visiting Yerushalayim that does not have daas of the things that have happened in it in these days? 
And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, The things about Yehoshua from Natzeret, who was a man, a navi, powerful in ma'aseh and dvar before Hashem and all HaAm, 
And how both our Kohanim HaGedolim and minhagim delivered him over to a mishpat mavet and how on HaEtz they hanged him. 
But we were holding the tikvah that he is the one to bring the Geulah of Yisroel. Ken, and besides all this, it is now HaYom HaShlishi vibahlt (since) these things took place. 
Also some nashim (women) in our number astounded us. They came to the kever (tomb, Rebbeʼs ohel) early this morning, 
And not having found geviyyato (his body), the nashim (women) came saying also to have seen a chazon (vision, appearance) of malachim (angels) who say he lives. 
And some of the ones with us departed to the kever (tomb), and they found it so, just as also the nashim (women) said, but him they did not see. 
And Moshiach said to them, O foolish ones and slow in lev (heart) to have emunah in all which the Neviim spoke. 
Was it not necessary for the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach to suffer these things and to enter into his kavod (glory)? 
And having begun from Moshe Rabbenu and from all the Neviim, he explained to them in all the Kitvei Hakodesh the things concerning himself. 
And they drew near to the shtetl where they were traveling and he acted as though to travel vaiter (farther). 
And they strongly urged him saying, Stay with us, because it is towards erev and the yom has declined already. And he entered to stay with them. 
And it came about, while he was reclining at tish with them, having taken the matzot, he made the hamotzi, and, with the betziat halechem (the breaking of the bread) he handed it to them. 
And the eynayim of them were opened, and they had daas, recognizing him. And just then he became invisible to them. 
And they said to one another, Were not our levavot burning within us as he was speaking to us on the derech, as he was opening to us the Kitvei Hakodesh? 
And getting up that very hour, they returned to Yerushalayim, and they found the Achad Asar (Eleven) gathered together and those with them, 
Saying that beemes (really) Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu was mamash (definitely) made to stand up alive and he tahke (actually) appeared to Shim'on. 
And they were explaining the things on the derech and how he was made known to them in the hisgalus of the betziat halechem. 
And while they were speaking these things, he stood in the midst of them, and he says to them, Shalom Aleichem. 
But having been startled and having been terrified, they were thinking they saw a ruach (spirit). 
And he said to them, Why have you been troubled, and why do doubts arise in your levavot? 
You see my hands and my feet that I am myself. Touch me and see, because a ruach does not have basar and atzamot (bones) as you see me having. 
And having said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. 
And while in their simcha they were still disbelieving and astonished, he said to them, Have you some okhel here? 
And they gave him part of a broiled dag (fish). 
And having taken it, in front of them, he ate it. 
And he said to them, These are my devarim which I spoke to you while still being with you, that it is necessary that all the things having been written in the Torah of Moshe and the Neviim and the Tehillim about me to be fulfilled. 
Then he opened their minds to have binah (understanding) of the Kitvei Hakodesh. 
And he said to them, Thus it has been written, that the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach must suffer his histalkus (passing) and come back to life again from HaMesim on HaYom HaShlishi, 
And teshuva for the selicha (forgiveness) of chattaim (sins) is to be preached b'Shem of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua to all the Nations, beginning from Yerushalayim. 
You are to be edim (witnesses) of these things. 
And, hinei, I send the havtachah of Avi to you; but you sit in HaIr (the City) until you may be clothed with oz (power) from on High. 
And he led them outside as far as Beit-Anyah, and having lifted up his hands, he said a bracha over them. 
And while he said the bracha over them, he departed from them, being taken up in an aliyah ascent to Shomayim. 
And they, having reverenced him in worship, returned to Yerushalayim with simcha gedolah. 
And they were continually in the Beis Hamikdash praising Hashem.
