MATTITYAHU.
Chapter 8.
And when Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach came down from the mountain, many multitudes followed him. 
And an ish metzorah (a leper) there was who approached him and fell down before Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, saying, Adoneinu, if you choose, you can make me tahor (clean). 
And, having stretched out his hand, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach touched him, saying, I am willing. Be made tahor. And immediately he was. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to him, See that you tell no one, but go and show yourself to the kohen and offer the korban about which Moshe gave mitzvah as an edut to them. 
Now when Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach entered into K'far-Nachum, a centurion approached him, begging him 
and saying, Adoneinu, my servant has been bedridden in the house, paralyzed, in terrible tza'ar. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to him, I am coming. I will bring him refuah (healing). 
The centurion answered, Adoneinu, I am not worthy that you might come under my roof, but only say the dvar, and my servant will receive the refuah (healing). 
For I also am a man under marut (authority), having soldiers subordinate to myself, and I say to this one, Go! And he goes, and to another, Come! And he comes, and to my servant, Do this! And he does it. 
And having heard this, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was amazed and said to those who followed him, Omein, I say to you, in no one in Yisroel have I found such great emunah. 
And I say to you, that many from the mizrach (east) and the maarav (west) will come and will sit bimesibba (reclining at tish) with Avraham and Yitzchak and Ya'akov in the Malchut HaShomayim. 
But the Bnei HaMalchut will be thrown out into the outer choshech (darkness), where there will be weeping and grinding of teeth. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to the centurion, Go! According to your bitachon (trust), your emunah (faith), let it be for you. And his servant was given refuah (healing) punkt (exactly) at that hour. 
When Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach entered the bais (house) of Kefa, he saw the chamot (mother-in-law, shviger) bedridden and fever stricken. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach touched her hand, and the fever left her. She then began functioning as his mesharetet (servant, lady minister), serving Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And when erev (evening) had come, they brought to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach many possessed by shedim (evil spirits, demons), and he cast out the shedim with a dvar, and all the cholim (sick persons) he healed. 
Thus was fulfilled what was spoken by Yeshayah the Navi, saying, ACHEN CHOLAYEINU HU NASA UMACHOVEINU SVALAM (Surely he took up our sicknesses and he carried away our sorrows). 
And when he saw the crowd around him, he gave orders to go over to the other side. 
A sofer (scribe, torah teacher) approached Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and said, Rebbe, I will follow you wherever you go. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to him, Foxes have holes and the OPH HASHOMAYIM(birds of heaven) have nests, but the Bar Enosh does not have a place where he may lay his head. 
And another of Moshiachʼs talmidim said to him, Adoneinu, allow me first to go and bury my father. 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to him, Follow me, and permit the mesim (spiritually dead ones without hitkhadshut, spiritually unregenerate ones) to bury their own mesim (deceased ones, niftarim). 
And when he embarked into the sirah, Moshiachʼs talmidim followed him. 
And hinei! a great storm came up on the lake, so that the sirah (boat) was about to be covered by the waves. But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was sleeping. 
And Moshiachʼs talmidim approached and woke him, saying, Adoneinu, hoshieinu! We are perishing! 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Why are you fearful, you ones of little emunah? Then, arising, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach rebuked the winds and the sea. And there was a great calm. 
And the men were astonished, saying, What sort of man is this!? That even the winds and the sea obey him! 
And when Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach came to the other side of the lake, in the land of the people of Gadara, he was met by two men possessed by shedim (demons); these men were coming out of the kevarim (tombs) of the burial caves and were so dangerous no one could pass by on that road. 
And they screamed, saying, Mah lanu valach, Ben HaElohim? (What to us and to you, Ben HaElohim?) Have you come here to torture us before the time? 
Now there was feeding far away from them a large herd of chazirim (swine). 
And the shedim begged him, saying, If you cast us out, send us into the herd of chazirim. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Go away! So the shedim, coming out, went away into the chazirim. And, hinei, all the herd of chazirim rushed down the bank into the lake, and they perished in the water. 
And the herdsmen of the chazirim fled, and, having gone away into the town, they told the whole story of what had happened to the men possessed by shedim. 
And hinei! The whole town came out to meet Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. And seeing him, they begged him to depart from their area. 
