HISGALUS.
Chapter 2.
To the malach (angel) of the Kehillah (Congregation) in Ephesus, write: These things says the One holding shivat hakokhavim (seven stars) in the yamin (right hand) of him, the One walking in the midst of the sheva menorot hazahav (seven golden menorahs): 
I have da'as of your ma'asim (deeds) and your amal (toil) and the savlanut (patient endurance) of you plural and that you cannot bear anshei resha (evil men), and have tested the ones making the claim that they are “Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiachʼs shlichim” and are not, and found them kozvim (liars). 
And you have savlanut (patient endurance), and you have persevered because of ha-Shem of me and have not become weary. 
But I have this against you, that you abandoned your Ahavah HaRishonah. 
Therefore, let there be zikaron (remembrance) of from where you have fallen and make teshuva (repentance, turning from sin to G-d) and do the Ma'asim HaRishonim; but, if not, I am coming to you plural and I will remove your menorah from its place, unless you make teshuva. 
But this you have, that you loathe the ma'asim ra'im (evil deeds) of the Nicolaitans, which also I loathe. 
The one having an ear let him hear what the Ruach Hakodesh says to the Kehillot; To the one who wins the nitzachon (victory) I will give to him to eat of the Etz HaChayyim (Tree of Life), which is in the Gan-Eden of Hashem. 
And to the malach (angel) of the Kehillah in Smyrna, write: These things says HaRishon and HaAcharon, who became niftar (deceased) and had his histalkus (passing), and came back to Chayyim (Life): 
I have da'as of your tzarah Mt 24:15f and oni (poverty) — but you are oisher (rich) — and the loshon hora of the ones making the claim and declaring themselves to be Bnei Brit, and are not, but are a Shul of the Adversary. 
Have no pachad (terror) at all of the things you are about to suffer. Hinei, HaSatan is about to cast some of you into beit hasohar that you may be tested and you will have tzarah aseret yamim (ten days). Be ne'eman ad haMavet (faithful unto death), and I will give you the ateret HaChayyim (the diadem of Life). 
The one having spiritual ears, let him hear what the Ruach Hakodesh says to the Kehillot. The one who wins the nitzachon (victory) never will be hurt by the Mavet HaSheyni (the Second Death). 
And to the malach (angel) of the Kehillah at Pergamum, write: These things says the one having the sharp two-edged cherev: 
I have da'as of where you make your ma'on (residence), where the kes (throne) of HaSatan is, and you hold fast to ha-Shem of me and did not make hakhchashah (denial) of my emunah (faith), even in the days of Antipas my ed hane'eman (my faithful witness) who died al-kiddush ha-Shem, killed among you as a martyr where HaSatan makes his ma'on (residence). 
But I have a few things against you, because you have there ones holding to “the torah of Bil'am,” who was teaching Balak to put a michshol (stumbling block) before Bnei Yisroel. 
So also you have ones eating okhel (food) sacrificed to elilim (idols) and who commit zenut (fornication). You also have ones holding the “torah of the Nicolaitans.” 
Likewise, therefore, make teshuva (repentance, turning from sin to G-d)! But if not, I am coming to you quickly and will war against them by the cherev of my mouth. 
The one having an ear let him hear what the Ruach Hakodesh says to the Kehillot. To the one who wins the nitzachon (victory), I will give him some of the Manna having been nistar (hidden), and I will give him an even levanah (a white stone) and upon it a Shem Chadash (New Name), of which no one has da'as, except the one receiving it. 
And to the malach of the Kehillah in Thyatira, write: These things says the Zun fun der Oybershter, the One having his eynayim (eyes) like a flame of eish (fire), and the feet of him like burnished bronze: 
I have da'as of your ma'asim (deeds) and the ahavah and the emunah and the tzedek and the savlanut (patient endurance) of you, and that your ma'asim ha'acharonim are more than harishonim of you. 
But I have this against you, that you are being permissive toward that isha Izevel (Jezebel), the one calling herself a nevi'ah (prophetess) who teaches and deceives my avadim to commit zenut and to eat okhel (food) sacrificed to elilim (idols). 
And I gave her time that she might make teshuva and she does not wish to make teshuva of her zenut. 
Hinei, I am throwing her into a bed of suffering, and the ones committing ni'uf (adultery) with her into Tzarah Gedolah(Great Tribulation), unless they make teshuva of her ma'asim (deeds). 
And her yeladim (children), I will kill with Mavet, and all the kehillot will have da'as that I am the One searching their musar klayot valev (pangs of conscience and heart), and I will give to you, each one, according to what you have done. 
But I say to you, the rest, to the ones in Thyatira, as many as have not this “torah” (teaching), who did not have da'as of, as they say, “the tiefe (deep, profound) things of HaSatan,” I am putting on you no other burden. 
Al kol panim (nevertheless), what you have, hold fast until I come. 
And the one who wins the nitzachon and the one until HaKets keeping shomer over ma'asei mitzvot of Me, him will I give samchut (authority) over the Goyim, 
To rule them with a SHEVET BARZEL (scepter of iron) KIKH'LI YOTZER TENAPTZEM (as the vessel of pottery are broken), 
Even as I also have received from HaAv of me and I will give him the Kokhav(Star) haNogah (of Brightness, Venus, the Morning Star). 
The one having an ear let him hear what the Ruach Hakodesh says to the Kehillot. 
