HISGALUS.
Chapter 22.
And he showed me a nahar (river) of Mayim Chayyim (Water of Life) bright as crystal, going forth out of the Kisse (Throne) of Hashem and of the SEH(Lamb). 
In the middle of the rekhov (street) of it, and on either side on the nahar (river) was the Etz HaChayyim, producing Shneym Asar Perot (Twelve Fruits), according to each chodesh (month), yielding the p'ri of it, and the leaves of the Etz (tree) were for the refu'ah (healing) of the Nations. 
And there shall no longer be any Kelalah (Curse), and the Kisse (Throne) of Hashem and of the SEH (Lamb), shall be in it, and His avadim shall serve Him. 
And they shall see His face, and ha-Shem of Him will be on the metsakhim (foreheads) of them. 
And there shall no longer be Lailah, and they have no need of the ohr (light) of a menorah and the ohr (light) of the shemesh (sun), because Hashem Adonoi will give forth ohr (light) on them, and they shall reign l'Olemei Olamim. 
And he said to me, “These devarim are ne'emanim and amittiyim, and Hashem, the Elohei ruchot hanevi'im (G-d of the spirits of the prophets) sent His malach (angel) to show to His avadim (servants) things which are imminent. 
And hinei, I am coming quickly. Ashrey is the one who is shomer, keeping the devarim hanevu'ah (words of the prophecy) of this sefer (book).” 
And I, Yochanan, am the one hearing and seeing these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell to worship before the feet of the malach (angel) showing me these things. 
And he says to me, “See that you do not do it; a fellow eved of yours I am, and of your Achim, the Nevi'im (prophets), and of the ones who are shomer, keeping the devarim of this sefer; 
worship Hashem!” And he says to me, “Do not seal up the devarim hanevu'ah (words of the prophecy) of this sefer (book), for the zman (time) is at hand. 
Let the one being unrighteous, let him be unrighteous noch (still); and let the one who is filthy be filthy noch, and let the tzaddik be a tzaddik noch, and let the kadosh yitkadesh noch (holy person be sanctified still). 
Hinei, I am coming quickly, and My sachar (reward) is with Me, to give to each one according to what he has done. 
I am the Aleph and the Tav, HaRishon (The First) and HaAcharon (The Last), HaReshit (The Beginning) and HaTachlit (The Ultimate). 
Ashrey are the ones washing their kaftans, that they may have the right to the Etz HaChayyim (the Tree of Life) and they may enter by the she'arim (gates) into the city. 
Outside are the kelevim (dogs) and the mekhashfim (sorcerers, abusers of drugs); and the zonim (sexually immoral) and the rotzkhim (murderers) and the ovdei haelilim (idolaters) and everyone loving and practicing sheker. 
I, Yehoshua sent My malach (angel) to give solemn eidus (testimony) to you of these things, for the Kehillot. I am the Shoresh (root) and the tzemach of Dovid, the Kokhav HaShachar.” 
And the Ruach Hakodesh and the Kallah say, “Bo!” And the one hearing let him say, “Bo!” And the one thirsting, let him come, the one desiring let him take the Mayim Chayyim freely. 
I give solemn edut to everyone hearing the divrei haNevu'ah of this sefer: if anyone adds to them, Hashem will add to him the makkot (plagues) which are written in this sefer; 
And if anyone takes away from the devarim of the sefer of this nevu'ah (prophecy), Hashem will take away his share of the Etz HaChayyim and from the Ir HaKodesh, which are written of in this sefer. 
He who gives solemn edut to these things says, “Ken! I am coming bahlt (soon)!” Omein. Come Adoneinu Yehoshua! 
The Chen v'Chesed Hashem of Adoneinu Yehoshua be with all. Omein.
