GEVUROT MEYRUACH HAKODESH.
Chapter 23.
And as he gazed at the Sanhedrin, Rav Sha'ul said, Anashim, Achim, I have lived before Hashem until this day with a lev tahor. 
And the Kohen Gadol Chananyah ordered the ones standing by Rav Sha'ul to strike his mouth. 
Then Rav Sha'ul said to him, Hashem is about to strike you, you white-washed wall! You sit judging me according to Torah and yet in violation of the Torah you command me to be struck? 
And the ones standing by said, Do you revile the Kohen Gadol of Hashem? 
And Rav Sha'ul said, I was without da'as, Achim, that he is the Kohen Gadol, for it has been written, NASI V'AMMECHA LO TA'OR (A ruler of your people you will not speak evil of, curse). 
And Rav Sha'ul, having da'as that one kat is of Tzedukim (Sadducees) and the other of Perushim (Pharisees), was crying out in the Sanhedrin, Anashim, Achim, I am a Parush ben Parush and it is for the tikvah of the Techiyas HaMesim that I am being judged. 
Now when Rav Sha'ul said this, there came about a machlochet (controversy) between the Perushim and Tzedukim, and the multitude was divided. 
Loit (according to) the Tzedukim, there is no Techiyas HaMesim nor a malach nor ruchot, but Perushim acknowledge all these things. 
And there was a kol gadol and some of the Sofrim of the kat of the Perushim were arguing vigorously, saying, Nothing rah do we find keneged this ish, and what if a ruach did speak to him or a malach? 
And fearing much more machloket was coming, the Roman tribune ordered the troops to go down to take Rav Sha'ul away from the midst of them and to bring him into the barracks lest he be torn to pieces by them. 
And on the following lailah, HaAdon stood by Rav Sha'ul and said, Chazak! For as you gave solemn edut about me in Yerushalayim, thus it is necessary for you also to bear solemn eidus in Rome. 
In the boker, the Judeans joined in a kesher and bound themselves with a shevu'ah that none of them would eat or drink until they had carried out their plot of retzichah b'seter of Rav Sha'ul. 
Now there were more than arba'im anashim (forty men) who joined in this kesher. 
After they approached the Rashei HaKohanim (Chief Priests) and the Zekenim (Elders), they said, We have bound ourselves with a shevu'ah (oath) to eat nothing until we have killed Rav Sha'ul. 
Now, therefore, you with the Sanhedrin notify the tribune so that he may bring Rav Sha'ul down to you as if intending to determine more accurately the things concerning him, and, before he draws near, we are ready to kill him. 
Now when Rav Sha'ulʼs achyon (nephew) heard about the ma'arav (ambush), he went and gained entrance into the barracks and reported this to Rav Sha'ul. 
And Rav Sha'ul summoned one of the centurions and said, Bring this bochur to the tribune for he has something to report to him. 
So the centurion took the bochur and brought him to the tribune and says, The prisoner Rav Sha'ul has summoned me and asked me to bring this bochur to you; he has something to say to you. 
The tribune grasped the bochurʼs hand and drew him aside privately, inquiring, What is it you have to report to me? 
And the bochur said, The Judeans agreed to ask you to bring Rav Sha'ul down machar (tomorrow) to the Sanhedrin as if intending to inquire something more accurate concerning him. 
Therefore, you should not be persuaded by them, for more than arba'im anashim are lying in wait for him and these took a shevu'ah upon themselves neither to eat nor to drink until they have assassinated him, and now they are ready, waiting for your consent. 
Therefore, the tribune dismissed the bochur, ordering him, Tell no one that you reported these things to me. 
And having summoned two of the centurions, the tribune said, Prepare to leave for Caesarea by nine o'clock tonight the following: two hundred chaiyalim, seventy horsemen, and two hundred bowmen. 
And also provide mounts for Rav Sha'ul to ride, that he may be given safe passage to Felix the Moshel. 
Then the tribune wrote an iggeret to this effect: 
Claudius Lysias to the most excellent Moshel, Felix. Greetings. 
This man was seized by the Judeans and was about to be killed by them, but when I learned that he is a Roman citizen, I came with the chaiyalim and rescued him. 
Desiring to have da'as of the charge for which they were accusing him, I brought him down to their Sanhedrin. 
I found he was being accused about issues of their Torah and the charge was nothing worthy of mavet or of imprisonment. 
And when I received information of a kesher (plot) keneged (against) the man, I sent him immediately to you, having given orders also to his accusers to state their case against Rav Sha'ul before your excellency. 
Therefore, as they were ordered, the chaiyalim took Rav Sha'ul along and brought him under cover of lailah to Antipatris. 
And on the next day, having allowed the horsemen to go on with Rav Sha'ul, they returned to the barracks. 
When the horsemen entered into Caesarea, they delivered the iggeret to the Moshel and also presented Rav Sha'ul to him. 
And having read it, and having asked from what province Rav Sha'ul hailed, the Moshel learned that he was from Cilicia. 
I will give you a hearing, Felix said, when also your accusers arrive. Then the Moshel commanded Rav Sha'ul to be watched by shomrim in the Praetorium of Herod. 
