TEHILLIM.
Chapter 71.
In Thee, Hashem, do I put my trust; let me not be put to shame l'olam. 
Deliver me in Thy tzedakah, and cause me to escape; incline Thine ear unto me, and hoshi'eini (save me). 
Be Thou Tzur Ma'on (a rock of habitation), whereunto I may resort tamid (continually); Thou hast given commandment to save me; for Thou art my rock and my fortress. 
Deliver me, O Elohai, out of the yad of the rasha, out of the palm of the unrighteous and cruel man. 
For Thou art my tikveh (hope), Adonoi Hashem; Thou art my trust from my youth. 
By Thee have I been upheld from the beten (womb); Thou art He that took me out of the womb of immi; my tehillah (praise) shall be of Thee tamid (continually). 
I am as a mofet (portent) unto rabbim (many); but Thou art my strong refuge. 
Let my mouth be filled with Thy tehillah (praise) and with Thy tiferet (glory) kol hayom. 
Cast me not off in the time of ziknah (old age); forsake me not when my ko'ach faileth. 
For mine oyevim speak against me; and they that lay in wait for my nefesh conspire together, 
Saying, Elohim hath forsaken him; persecute and lay hold of him; for there is none to rescue him. 
O Elohim, be not far from me; O Elohai, make haste for my help. 
Let them be ashamed and consumed that are adversaries to my nefesh; let them be covered with cherpah (reproach) and dishonor that seek my hurt. 
But I will hope tamid (continually), and will yet give tehillah to Thee more and more. 
My mouth shall proclaim Thy tzedakah and Thy Teshuah (salvation) kol hayom; for I know not the limits thereof. 
I will come in the gevurot (mighty acts) of Adonoi Hashem; I will make mention of Thy tzedakah, even of Thine only. 
O Elohim, Thou hast taught me from my youth; and hitherto have I declared Thy nifle'ot (wondrous works). 
Now also when I am in ziknah (old age) and grayheaded, O Elohim, forsake me not; until I have declared Thy zero'a unto this generation, and Thy gevurah to everyone that is to come. 
Thy tzedakah also, O Elohim, is ad marom (to the heights). Thou Who hast done gedolot (great things); O Elohim, mi khamocha (who is like unto Thee)? 
Thou, which hast showed me great and severe tzoros, shalt revive me again, and shalt bring me up again from the tehomot (abysses) of ha'aretz. 
Thou shalt increase my gedolah, and comfort me on every side. 
I will also praise Thee with the nevel (lyre), even Thy emes, O Elohai; unto Thee will I sing with the kinnor (harp), O Thou Kadosh Yisroel. 
My lips shall shout for joy when I sing unto Thee; and my nefesh, which Thou hast purchased for redemption. 
My leshon also shall tell of Thy tzedakah kol hayom; for they are brought unto shame, they are humiliated that seek my hurt. 
