MATTITYAHU.
Chapter 17.
And after shisha yamim (six days), Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach took Kefa, Ya'akov and Yochanan his brother; he brings them up to a high mountain in yechidus. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was transfigured before them, and Moshiachʼs face shone like the shemesh (sun), and his garments became brilliant like the ohr. 
And hinei! There appeared before them Moshe Rabbenu and Eliyahu HaNavi conferring with Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And Kefa said in reply to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Adoni, it is good for us to be here. If you wish, I will make shalosh sukkot here: one for you, and one for Moshe Rabbenu, and one for Eliyahu HaNavi. 
While he was speaking, hinei! A brightly shining anan (cloud) overshadowed them, and hinei! A bat kol (a voice from heaven) out of the anan was saying, This is My Ben ahuvi (beloved Son) with whom I am well-pleased. Listen to him. 
And having heard this, the talmidim fell on their faces and were filled with pachad. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach came to them, and touched them, and said, Arise, and do not be afraid. 
And lifting their eyes, they saw no one except only Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach himself, alone. 
And as Moshiachʼs talmidim were coming down from the mountain, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach gave them this directive saying, Tell the mareh (vision) to no one until the Bar Enosh has undergone the Techiyas HaMoshiach. 
And Moshiachʼs talmidim asked him, saying, Why then do the Sofrim say that it is necessary for Eliyahu HaNavi to come first? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said in reply, Eliyahu HaNavi does indeed have his coming and will restore all things. 
But I say to you, that Eliyahu has come already, and they did not have daas of him, but did to him whatever they willed. So also the Bar Enosh is about to suffer by them. 
Then the Moshiachʼs talmidim had binah that he spoke to them about Yochanan of the tevilah of teshuva. 
And when they came to the multitude, a man came up to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, falling down before him. 
And the man said, Adoni, grant rachamim (mercy) on this ben (son) of mine, for he is an epileptic, and suffers horribly; for often he falls into the eish, and often into the mayim. 
And I brought him to your talmidim, and they could not give him refuah. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said in reply, O perverted generation without emunah, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring him here to me. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach rebuked it, and the shed came out of him, and the bocher received his refuah that hour. 
Then the talmidim came to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach in a yechidus (private meeting with the Rebbe), and said, Why were we not able to cast it out? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, On account of your little emunah, for, omein, I say to you, if you have emunah as a mustard seed, you shall say to this mountain, Move from here, and it shall be moved; and nothing shall be impossible for you. 
But this kind do not come out except by tefillah and tzom. 
And as they were gathering together in the Galil, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, The Bar Enosh is about to be handed over, even betrayed, into the hands of Bnei Adam. 
And they will kill him, and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach will have a histalkus (passing) and will undergo the Techiyas HaMoshiach on the Yom HaShlishi. And Moshiachʼs talmidim were deeply moved with agmat nefesh (grief). 
And when they had come to K'far-Nachum, those who collected the two drachma tax approached Kefa, and said, Does your rebbe not pay the two drachma tax? 
Kefa said, Ken. And when Kefa came into the bais (house), Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach anticipated Kefa with this question, What think you, Shim'on? From whom do the melechei haaretz (kings of the earth) collect customs or poll tax, from their banim (sons) or from zarim (strangers)? 
And upon Kefaʼs saying, From zarim, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to Kefa, Veha raya (consequently), the banim are patur (exempt, free). 
But, lest we give them offense, go to the yam (sea), and cast in a hook, and take the first dag (fish) that comes up; and when you open its mouth, you will find a stater (coin). Take that and give it to them for you and for me. 
