AMOS.
Chapter 7.
Thus hath Adonoi Hashem showed unto me; and, hinei, He formed locusts in the beginning of the springing up of the second crop; and, hinei, it was the second crop after the mowing of the melech. 
And it came to pass, that when they had made an end of eating the vegetation of ha'aretz, then I said: O Adonoi Hashem, forgive, I beseech thee; how shall Ya'akov survive? For he is katon. 
Hashem relented for this: It shall not be, saith Hashem. 
Thus hath Adonoi Hashem showed unto me; and, hinei, Adonoi Hashem called to punish with eish, and it devoured the tehom rabbah (great deep), and did devour the chelek (portion). 
Then said I: O Adonoi Hashem, cease, I beseech thee; how shall Ya'akov survive? For he is katon. 
Hashem relented for this: This also shall not be, saith Adonoi Hashem. 
Thus He showed me; and, hinei, Hashem stood upon a chomah (wall) made with a plumb line, and a plumb line in His hand. 
And Hashem said unto me: Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A plumb line. Then said Hashem: Hineni, I will set a plumb line in the midst of My people Yisroel; I will not again pass by them anymore; 
And the high places of Yischak shall be desolate, and the mikdeshei Yisroel shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the Bais Yarov'am with the cherev. 
Then Amatzyah the kohen of Beit-El sent to Yarov'am Melech Yisroel, saying: Amos hath conspired against thee in the midst of Bais Yisroel; the land is not able to bear all his words. 
For thus Amos saith: Yarov'am shall die by the cherev, and Yisroel shall surely be led away into the golus out of their own land. 
Also Amatzyah said unto Amos: O thou seer, go, flee thee away into Eretz Yehudah, and there eat lechem, and prophesy there, 
But prophesy not again any more at Beit-El; for it is the Mikdash Melech, and it is the Bais Mamlachah. 
Then answered Amos, and said to Amatzyah: I was no navi, neither was I a ben navi; but I was a herder, and a dresser of sycamore-fig trees; 
And Hashem took me as I followed the tzon, and Hashem said unto me: Go, prophesy unto My people Yisroel. 
Now therefore hear thou the Devar Hashem: Thou sayest, Prophesy not against Yisroel, and drop not thy word against the Bais Yischak. 
Therefore thus saith Hashem: Thy isha shall be a zonah in the city, and thy banim and thy banot shall fall by the cherev, and thy land shall be divided by line; and thou shalt die in an adamah temei'ah (unclean land); and Yisroel shall surely go forth of his land into golus (exile). 
