MATTITYAHU.
Chapter 28.
Now after Shabbos, at the time of Shacharis on Yom Rishon (the first day of the week), Miryam of Magdala and the other Miryam came to look at the kever. 
And hinei! a great earthquake had occurred, for a malach Adonoi (an angel of Hashem) descended from Shomayim and came and rolled away the stone and sat upon it. 
And his appearance was like lightning and his garment as white as snow. 
And the shomrim (guards) shook for fear of him and became like dead men. 
And the malach, in reply, said to the nashim, Do not be afraid, for I know that you are seeking Yehoshua, who has been hanged on HaEtz. 
He is not here. To him has come the Techiyas HaMesim, just as he said. Come, see the place where HaAdon was lying. 
And go quickly, tell his talmidim about the Techiyas HaMoshiach from HaMesim. And, hinei! He is going ahead of you into the Galil. There you will see him. Hinei! I have told you! 
And they departed quickly from the kever with fear and great simcha and ran to report everything to Moshiachʼs talmidim. 
And hinei! Moshiach met them, saying Shalom Aleichem. And they came up and took hold of his feet and fell prostrate before him. 
Then he said to them, Do not be afraid; go and take word to my Achim that they may go away to the Galil, and there they shall see me. 
Now while they were on their way, hinei! Some of the shomrim came into the city and reported to the Rashei Hakohanim all the things that had happened. 
And when they had assembled with the Zekenim and counseled together, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers, 
And said, You are to say, His talmidim came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. 
And if this should come to the Governorʼs ears, we will win him over and keep you out of trouble. 
And the ones who took the kesef did as they had been instructed and this story was widely spread among the Yehudim to this day. 
But the Achad Asar Talmidim proceeded to the Galil, to the mountain which Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach had designated. 
And when they saw him, they prostrated themselves before him, but some were doubtful. 
And he came up and spoke to them, saying, All samchut (authority) has been given to me in Shomayim and on HaAretz. 
Go, therefore, make talmidim for Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach of all the nations, giving them a tevilah in a mikveh mayim in Hashem, in the Name of HaAv, and HaBen, and HaRuach Hakodesh, 
Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And hinei! I am with you always, even unto the Ketz HaOlam Hazeh.
