YOCHANAN.
Chapter 11.
Now there was a certain man, a choleh (sick man), El'azar from Beit-Anyah (Bethany), the shtetl of Miryam and Marta her achot. 
Now this was the same Miryam that anointed Adoneinu with mishcha(ointment) and wiped his feet with her hair. It was she whose ach El'azar was choleh. 
Therefore, the achayot (sisters) sent to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, saying, Adoni, hinei, the one who is your chaver haahuv is choleh. 
And having heard this, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, This machla (illness, krankeit) is not unto mavet (death), but for the kavod Hashem, that the Ben HaElohim may receive kavod through it. 
Now Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach had ahavah for Marta, and her achot and El'azar. 
When, therefore, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach heard that El'azar was choleh, then he remained in the place where he was yomayim (two days). 
Then after this he says to his talmidim, Let us go into the land of Yehudah again. 
His talmidim say to him, Rebbe, just now those of the land of Yehudah were seeking to stone you, and you go there again? 
In reply, he said, Are there not Sheneym Asar (Twelve) sha'ot (hours) of HaYom? If the derech of anyone is a derech by Yom, he does not stumble, because the Ohr HaOlam Hazeh he sees. 
But if the derech of anyone is a derech baLailah, he stumbles because the Ohr is not in him. 
These things he said. Then, after this, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, El'azar our chaver haahuv has fallen asleep, but I am setting out to awaken him. 
Therefore, the talmidim said to him, Adoni, if he has fallen asleep, he will be granted refu'ah (healing). 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach had spoken about the mavet of El'azar. However, those ones supposed that he was speaking about only shlof (sleep). 
Then, therefore, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach told them plainly, El'azar died. 
And I have lev same'ach for your sake, that I was not there, that you may have emunah. But let us go to him. 
Therefore, T'oma — his name means Twin — said to his fellow talmidim, Let us go also, that we may die with him. 
Having arrived, therefore, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach discovered El'azar had already been in the kever (tomb) arba'ah yamim (four days). 
Now Beit-Anyah (Bethany) was near Yerushalayim, about fifteen stadia away. 
And many of those of Yehudah had come to Marta and Miryam to give them nechamah (consolation, comfort) regarding the ach of the achayot. 
Therefore, Marta when she heard that Yehoshua comes, met him; but Miryam was sitting shivah in the bais. 
Therefore, Marta said to Yehoshua, Adoni, if you were here, achi (my brother) would not have passed away. 
But even now I have da'as that whatever you ask Hashem, Hashem will give you. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to her, Achich yakum (Your brother will stand up). 
Marta says to Yehoshua, I have da'as that he will rise in the Techiyas HaMesim on the Yom HaAcharon (Last Day). 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to her, Ani Hu the Tekhiyyah and the Chayyim (Life): the one having emunah in me, even if he should die, will live, 
and everyone living and having emunah in me, never dies. Do you have emunah in this? 
She says to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Ken, Adoni. I have emunah that you are the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, the Ben HaElohim, Hu Habah el HaOlam. 
And having said this, she withdrew and summoned Miryam her achot, telling her privately, Rabbeinu and Moreinu is here, and summons you. 
And that isha, when she heard, got up quickly and was coming to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
Now he had not yet come into the shtetl, but was still in the place where Marta met him. 
Therefore, those of Yehudah, the ones sitting shiva with her in the bais and giving her nechamah, when they saw Miryam get up quickly and rush out, followed her, assuming that she is going to the kever (tomb) that she might weep there. 
Therefore, Miryam, when she came where Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was, and when she saw him, fell down at his feet, saying to Rebbe, Adoni, if you were here, achi (my brother) would not have died. 
Therefore, when he saw her weeping and those of Yehudah coming with her and also weeping, he was deeply moved in his neshamah and was troubled in himself, 
And said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Adoni, come and see. 
Yehoshua wept. 
Therefore, those of Yehudah were saying, Hinei! See how much ahavah he had for him. 
But some of them said, Could not this man, who was able to open the eyes of the ivver, have also prevented this man from passing? 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, therefore, again being deeply moved within himself, comes to the kever (tomb). Now it was a me'arah (cave) type of kever and a stone was lying against it. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says, Lift the stone. Marta, the achot of the niftar (deceased), says to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Adoni, already he smells, for it is now arba'ah yamim (four days). 
He says to her, Did I not tell you that if you have emunah (faith), you will see the kavod Hashem? 
Therefore, they lifted the stone and he lifted up his eyes and said, Avi, I thank You that You heard me. 
And I knew that You always hear me, but, because of the multitude standing around, I said it, that they may have emunah (faith) that You sent me. 
And having said these things, he cried out with a kol gadol, El'azar, come forth! 
Then the niftar, having been bound feet and hands with the linen clothes of the tachrichin, and with his face covered with a mitznefet (head wrapping), came out. He says to them, Untie him and let him go. 
Therefore, many of those of Yehudah, the ones having come to Miryam and having seen the things which Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach did, put their emunah in him. 
But some of them went away to the Perushim and reported to them everything Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach did. 
Therefore, the Rashei Hakohanim and the Perushim called a meeting of the Sanhedrin and were saying, What are we doing, for this man is performing many otot (miraculous signs)? 
If we leave him thus, kol Bnei Adam will have emunah (faith) in him, and the Romans will come and will take away from us both the Beis Hamikdash and the nation. 
But a certain one of them, Caiapha, being Kohen Gadol that year, said to them, You do not have da'as of anything, 
Nor do you consider that it is a bedievedike (expedient) thing for you that one man should die on behalf of HaAm and not that all the nation should perish. 
But this he did not utter from himself, but, being Kohen Gadol that year, he uttered a dvar hanevu'ah that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was about to die on behalf of the nation. 
And not on behalf of Am Yisroel only but also the yeladim of Hashem, the ones having been scattered, that he may gather into echad. 
From that Yom on, therefore, they planned that they might put him to death. 
Therefore he no longer was walking openly among those of Yehudah, but went away from there into the region near the wilderness, to a shtetl called Ephrayim, and there Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach remained with the talmidim. 
Now Pesach was near and many went up to Yerushalayim from the country before the Pesach for the purpose of HITTEHARU (they purified themselves). 
They were seeking, therefore, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach and were saying to one another while they stood in the Beis Hamikdash, What does it appear to you? Surely he will not come to the Chag (Feast)! 
Now the Rashei Hakohanim and the Perushim had given orders that if anyone had da'as of where he is, he should reveal it so that they might arrest him. 
