TEHILLIM.
Chapter 49.
(For the one directing. A Mizmor for the Bnei Korach) 
Hear this, kol HaAmim; give ear, all ye inhabitants of the cheled (world, duration): 
Bnei Adam and bnei ish, ashir (rich) and evyon (poor) alike, 
My mouth shall speak chochmot; and the meditation of my lev tevunot (understanding). 
I will incline mine ear to a mashal; I will disclose my dark saying upon the kinnor (harp). 
Why should I fear in the days of rah, when the avon (iniquity) of my akev (supplanters, deceivers) surrounds me? 
They that trust in their chayil (wealth), and boast themselves in the rov of their oshir (riches); 
A brother cannot by any means redeem ish (man), nor give to Elohim a kofer (ransom) for him — 
For the pidyon of their nefesh is costly, and is forever beyond their power to pay — 
That he should live on lanetzach, and not see shachat (corruption, decay, the pit). 
For he seeth that chachamim die, likewise the kesil (foolish) and the ba'ar (brutish, senseless person, dolt) perish, and leave their chayil (wealth) to others. 
Their inward thought is that their batim (houses) shall continue l'olam, and their mishkenot (dwelling places) l'odor vador; they call their lands by their shmot (names). 
Nevertheless adam in his pomp endureth not; he is like the behemot (beasts) that perish. 
This is their derech, kesel (folly, imprudent confidence) is theirs; and the fate after them of those who approve their words. Selah 
Like tzon they are destined for She'ol; mavet shall pasture them; and the yesharim (upright ones) shall have dominion over them in the boker; and their tzir (form) shall waste away to Sheol, so there is no dwelling place for it. 
But Elohim will redeem my nefesh from the yad (hand, power) of Sheol; for He shall receive me. Selah 
Be not thou afraid when one is made an ish oishir, when the kavod of his bais is increased; 
For in his mot (death), he shall carry nothing away; his kavod (glory, wealth) shall not descend after him. 
Though his nefesh during his life yevarech (he blessed) — for they praise thee when thou doest well for thyself — 
He shall go to the dor (generation) of his avot; they shall never see ohr (light). 
Adam that is in his pomp, and understandeth not, is like the behemot (beasts) that perish. 
