Moshiachʼs Letter through the Shliach Sha'ul to Timotiyos (I).
Chapter 1.
From Sha'ul, a Shliach of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua according to the authoritative command of the Dvar Hashem, that is, Hashem Moshieinu and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua tikvateynu. 
To Timotiyos, a trueborn ben baEmunah (son in the faith). Chesed Hashem, Rachamim Hashem, and Shalom Hashem from Elohim Avinu and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua Adoneinu. 
Even as I urged you to remain in Ephesus while I was going into Macedonia so that you might enjoin the gzeira (authoritative command) on certain persons not to teach heterodoxy, 
Nor to focus on aggadah and endless toldot (genealogies) which give rise to useless speculations in contrast to Hashemʼs imun (training) in emunah. 
But the tachlis (purpose) of the gzeira is ahavah (love) out of a lev tahor (pure heart) and a clear matzpun (conscience) and emunah (faith) without tzevi'ut (hypocrisy). 
Some people have missed the mark and deviated from these things to hevel (vanity), to divrei havohu (words of emptiness). 
Wanting to teach Torah as rabbonim, they have binah neither of what they are talking about nor of the things about which they so confidently make assertions. 
But we know that the Torah is beneficial if anyoneʼs use of Torah is Torah-true. 
This means one must have da'as that the Torah is not intended for the anshei tzedek (men of righteousness) but for the bnei Belial and the poshei'im (the ones transgressing, rebelling), those without yirat Shomayim and the chote'im (sinners), osei to'eva (doers of abomination), profane people, killers of their own Av va'Em (father and mother), and rotzeachim (murderers), 
Zannayim (fornicators), shochvim es zachar (homosexuals), gonvei nefesh(kidnapper, slave dealers), shakranim (liars), nishba'im lasheker (perjurers) and whatever else is keneged (against) sound orthodox torah, 
According to the Besuras HaGeulah kavod haElohim ham'vorach (the Good News of Redemption of the glory of the blessed G-d) with which I was entrusted. 
Modeh ani (I give thanks) to the one having empowered me, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua Adoneinu, because he considered me ne'eman (faithful), having appointed me to the rabbanut of Moshiach. 
Previously being one guilty of Chillul Hashem gidduf (blasphemy), redifah (persecution), and religious terrorism, fort (nevertheless), I received rachamim (mercy), because I acted in ignorance in the absence of emunah. 
And the Chen vaChesed Adoneinu super-abounded with emunah and ahavah in Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
Trustworthy is the dvar Emes and worthy of all mekabel acceptance, that Rebbe, Melech, HaMoshiach Yehoshua came into the Olam Hazeh to rescue chote'im, of whom I am the foremost. 
But because of this, I received rachamim that in me, the foremost, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua might display all savlanut (longsuffering, patience), making me a mofet (model) to the ones about to have bitachon (trust) and emunah in Moshiach, resulting in Chayyei Olam. 
Now to HaMelech HaOlamim, the One who is Ein Sof (without end), Whom no eye has seen, Adonoi echad, lo hakavod v'hatiferet mayhaolam v'ad haolam (to him be honor and glory from forever to forever). Omein. 
This gzeira I commit to you, beni Timotiyos, according to hanevu'ot(the prophecies) made previously about you, that by them you might war the good warfare, 
Holding emunah and a clear matzpun (conscience), which some persons, because they pushed aside a clear matzpun, have suffered shipwreck in the emunah. 
Among these are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I handed over to HaSatan, that they might be taught not to commit Chillul Hashem gidduf. 
