1 Corinthians.
Chapter 3.
Achim b'Moshiach, I was not able to speak to you as to men of hitkhadshut and ruchaniyut; I had to speak to you as bnei basar, as olalim b'Moshiach. 
Cholov I gave you to drink, not solid okhel (food), for you were not yet able to receive it, but neither yet are you able now. 
For still you are bnei basar (carnally-minded believers). For als (since) there is still kinah and merivah (strife) among you, are you not bnei basar, by the standards of Bnei Adam? 
For, whenever anyone says, “I am of Sha'ul,” but another, “I am of Apollos,” are you not as anshei shechichim (ordinary men)? 
What then is Apollos? And what is Sha'ul? Klei kodesh ministers of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, through whom you came to emunah, even as to each one a task was given by Adoneinu. 
I planted, Apollos watered, but Hashem gave the increase. 
Therefore, neither is the one planting anything nor the one watering, but it is the One giving the increase — Hashem! 
Now the one planting and the one watering are be'ichud (united), and, each one will receive his own sachar (reward) according to his own amal (toil). 
For we are fellow po'alim (workers) of Hashem, you are the sadeh Hashem(field of G-d), you are Hashemʼs binyan (building). 
According to the Chen v'Chesed Hashem having been given to me as a bannai chacham (wise builder), I laid a yesod (foundation), and another builds on it. But, let each one beware how he builds on it. 
For no other yesod other than the one that has been laid can be laid: Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
Now if anyone builds on the yesod with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble, 
The ma'aseh (work) of each bannai will become evident, for, haYom will make it have its hisgalus, because by Eish (Fire) it is revealed; and the Eish (Fire) itself will test the quality of each oneʼs ma'aseh. 
If anyoneʼs ma'aseh he built on the yesod will survive, a sachar (reward) he will receive; 
If anyoneʼs ma'aseh will be consumed, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet so as through Eish (fire). 
Do you not have da'as that you are a Heikhal Hashem and the Ruach Hakodesh of Hashem dwells in you? 
If anyone attempts to cause churban to the Heikhal Hashem, G-d will destroy this man, for the Heikhal Hashem is kadosh, and you plural are that Heikhal. 
Let no one deceive himself: if anyone presumes to be chacham among you in the Olam Hazeh, let him become a kesil (fool), that he may become chacham. 
For the chochmah (wisdom) of Olam Hazeh is narrishkait (foolishness) with Hashem. For it has been written, LOCHED CHACHAMIM BE'ARMAM (He catches the wise in their own craftiness). 
And again, HASHEM YODE'A MACHSH'VOT ADAM KI HEMAH HEVEL (The L-rd knows the thoughts of the wise that they are empty vanity). 
So let no one boast in Bnei Adam, for all things belong to you, 
Whether Sha'ul or Apollos or Kefa or HaOlam (the world) or Chayyim (Life) or Mavet (Death) or things present or things to come; all things are yours, 
And you are Moshiachʼs and Moshiach is Hashemʼs. 
