MATTITYAHU.
Chapter 23.
Then Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach spoke to the multitudes and to his Talmidim, 
Saying, Upon the Kisei Moshe (Chair of Moses) sit the Sofrim and the Perushim. 
Therefore, everything whatever they may tell you, be frum and be shomer, but according to their ma'asim (works) do not be shomer, for they do not practice what they preach. 
And they tie up heavy loads, hard to bear, and they place them upon the shoulders of men, but they, with so much as a finger, are not willing to lift the oppressive burdens. 
And all their ma'asei hamitzvot (works of the commandments) they do in order to be seen by Bnei Adam, for they broaden their tefillin and lengthen their tzitziyot, 
and they love the places of honor at the seudot (banquet dinners), and the shuls, 
And the Birkat Shalom greetings in the market places, and to be called by Bnei Adam, Rebbe. 
But you are not to have pretentious titles like Rebbe, for One is your Rebbe, and all of you are Achim b'Moshiach. 
And do not refer to anyone in the Olam Hazeh as your Abba, for One is your Av sh'ba'Shomayim. 
Neither be called Moreinu, for One is your Moreh (teacher) the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And the greatest among you will be your eved mesharet (servant, minister). 
But whoever will lift up himself will be humbled, and whoever will humble himself will be lifted up. 
But oy to you, Sofrim and Perushim, tzevuim (hypocrites), for in front of Bnei Adam you shut the Malchut HaShomayim. You do not go in yourselves, and the ones entering, you do not permit to enter. 
Oy to you, Sofrim and Perushim, tzevuim! You devour the batim of almanot and for the sake of chashuve (importance) appearance you make long tefillot; therefore your gezar din (verdict) will be more severe. 
Oy to you, Sofrim and Perushim, tzevuim. You travel over the sea and the dry land for the giyyur (proselytization) of one proselyte; then, when he becomes one, you make him twice as much a son of Gehinnom as you. 
Oy to you, morei derech ivrim (blind guides), the, ones saying, Whoever swears by the Beis Hamikdash, it is a worthless shevuah (oath): but whoever swears by the gold of the Beis Hamikdash, he is obligated. 
Ivrim! (blind ones), for which is greater, the gold or the Beis Hamikdash which gives the gold its kedushah (holiness, sanctity)? 
And whoever swears by the Mizbeach (altar), it is worthless; but whoever swears by the korban upon it, he is obligated. 
Ivrim, blind ones, for which is greater, the korban or Mizbeach which gives the korban its kedushah (holiness, sanctity)? 
Therefore, the one having sworn by the Mizbeach swears by it and everything upon it. 
And the one having sworn by the Beis Hamikdash swears by it and by everything indwelling it. 
And the one having sworn by Shomayim swears by the kes malchut of Hashem and by the One sitting upon the kes malchut. 
Oy to you, Sofrim and Perushim, tzevuim, for you give maasros (tithe) of mint and dill and cumin, and you have neglected the matters of the Torah of greater consequence: mishpat, chesed, and emunah. These things it was necessary to do and those not to neglect. 
Morei derech ivrim (blind guides), the ones that strain out a gnat and swallow a camel. 
Oy to you, Sofrim and Perushim, tzevuim, you cleanse the outside of the kos (cup) and the dish, but inside they are full of chamdanut (greed) and taavanut (lust). 
Blind Parush, first cleanse the inside of the kos, that perhaps also the outside may become clean. 
Oy to you, Sofrim and Perushim, tzevuim, for you are like kevarim (graves) having been whitewashed, which on the outside indeed appear ois vaist (ostensibly) shein (beautiful), but on the inside are full of the unclean bones of the mesim (dead ones) and every trayfnyak. 
Thus on the outside you indeed appear tzaddikim (righteous ones) to Bnei Adam, but on the inside you are full of tzeviut (hypocrisy) and you are lawlessly against the Torah. 
Oy to you, Sofrim and Perushim, tzevuim, for you build kevarim of the Neviim and decorate matsevot (gravestones) of the tzaddikim, 
And you say, If we were in the yamim (days) of Avoteinu (our Fathers), we would not have been shuttafim (partners) with them in the dahm haNeviim (blood of the Prophets). 
Therefore, you are edim (witnesses) against yourselves that you are the banim (sons) of the ratzchaniyot (murderers) of the Neviim. 
And you fill up the measure of your Avot. 
Snakes, you banim of nachashim, how can you escape the Yom HaDin of Gehinnom? 
For this reason hinei! I send to you Neviim and Chachamim and Sofrim, some of whom you will kill and some you will make talui al haetz(being hanged on the Tree) and some you will subject to the shot (whip) in your shuls, and you will drive them out from city to city, 
So that upon you may come all the dahm naki (innocent blood) shed upon the earth from the blood of Hevel to the blood of Zecharyah son of Barachiah, whom you murdered between the Heikhal and the Mizbeach. 
Omein, I say to you, that all these things will come upon this generation. 
Yerushalayim, Yerushalayim, the ones that kill the Neviim and stone those having been sent to you! How often have I wanted to gather your yeladim, as a hen gathers her chickens under her wings, but you were not willing! 
Hinei! Look! KI LECHARBAH YIH'YEH HABEIT HAZEH(for this House will become a ruin). 
For I say to you, by no means will you see me from now until you say, BARUCH HABAH B'SHEM ADONOI. 
