DIVREY HAYAMIM ALEF.
Chapter 11.
Then kol Yisroel gathered themselves to Dovid unto Chevron, saying, Hinei, we are thy etzem (bone) and thy basar. 
And moreover in time past, even when Sha'ul was melech, thou wast he that hamotzi (led out) and brought in Yisroel; and Hashem Eloheicha said unto thee, Thou shalt shepherd My people Yisroel, and thou shalt be Nagid over My people Yisroel. 
Therefore came all the Ziknei Yisroel to HaMelech to Chevron; and Dovid cut a Brit with them in Chevron before Hashem; and vayimeshechu (they anointed) Dovid Melech over Yisroel, according to the Devar Hashem by Shmuel. 
And Dovid and Kol Yisroel went to Yerushalayim, which is Yevus; where the Yevusi were, the inhabitants of ha'aretz. 
And the inhabitants of Yevus said to Dovid, Thou shalt not come in here. Nevertheless Dovid took the Metzudat Tziyon, which is Ir Dovid. 
And Dovid said, Whosoever attacketh the Yevusi barishonah shall be Rosh and Sar. So Yoav Ben Tzeruyah went up first, and became Rosh. 
And Dovid dwelt in the Metzad; therefore they called it Ir Dovid. 
And he built the Ir around it, even from the Millo to the surrounding area, and Yoav repaired the rest of the Ir. 
So Dovid continued greater and greater, for Hashem Tzva'os was with him. 
These also are the Roshei HaGibborim whom Dovid had, who strengthened themselves with him in his Malchut, and with all Yisroel, to make him Melech, according to the Devar Hashem concerning Yisroel. 
And this is the mispar (number) of the Gibborim whom Dovid had: Yashov'am, a ben Chachmoni, Rosh HaShaloshim: he lifted up his khanit against shlosh me'ot slain by him at one time. 
And after him was El'azar Ben Dodo, the Achochi, who was one of the Shloshah HaGibborim. 
He was with Dovid at Pas Dammim, and there the Pelishtim (Philistines) were gathered together to battle, where was chelekat hasadeh (a parcel of ground) full of se'orim (barley); and HaAm (the people, troops, army) fled from before the Pelishtim (Philistines). 
And they set themselves in the midst of that chelekah (parcel), and delivered it, and slaughtered the Pelishtim (Philistines); vayosha Hashem(and Hashemsaved) them by a teshu'ah gedolah (great deliverance). 
Now three of the sheloshim rosh went down to the Tzur to Dovid, into the me'arah (cave) of Adullam; and the machaneh of the Pelishtim (Philistines) encamped in the Emek Repha'im. 
And Dovid was then in the Metzudah, and the garrison of the Pelishtim was then at Beit-Lechem. 
And Dovid had a thirsty longing, and said, Oh that one would draw for me drink of the mayim from the bor (well) of Beit-Lechem, that is at the sha'ar (gate). 
And the Shlosha broke through the machaneh Pelishtim (Philistines), and drew mayim out of the bor Beit-Lechem, that was by the sha'ar, and took it, and brought it to Dovid; but Dovid would not drink of it, but poured it out to Hashem. 
And said, Chalilah li meElohai (Elohai forbid it me), that I should do this thing. Shall I drink the dahm of these anashim at their nafshot? For at jeopardy of their nafshot they brought it. Therefore he would not drink it. These things did these Shloshet HaGibborim. 
And Avishai the brother of Yoav, he was Rosh HaSheloshah; for lifting up his khanit against Shlosh Me'ot, he slaughtered them, and had a shem among the Shloshah. 
Of the Shloshah, he was more honored than the two; for he was their Sar; howbeit he attained not to the Shloshah. 
Benayah Ben Yehoyada, a valiant man of Kavtze'el, who had done many exploits; he slaughtered two lion-like men of Moav; also he went down and slaughtered an ari in a bor (pit) on a yom sheleg (snowy day). 
And he slaughtered the ish HaMitzri, a man of great stature, five cubits high; and in the yad HaMitzri was a khanit like a rod of an oreg (weaver); and he went down to him with a shevet (club), and plucked the khanit out of the yad HaMitzri, and slaughtered him with his own khanit. 
These things did Benayah Ben Yehoyada, and had the shem among the Shloshah HaGibborim. 
Behold, he was honored among the Shloshim, but attained not to the Shloshah; and Dovid set him over his mishma'at. 
Also the valiant men of the armies were, Asahel the brother of Yoav, Elchanan Ben Dodo of Beit-Lechem, 
Shammot the Harori, Cheletz the Peloni, 
Ira Ben Ikkesh the Tekoi, Avi'ezer the Anetoti, 
Sibbekhai the Chushati, Ilai the Achochi, 
Maharai the Netophati, Cheled Ben Ba'anah the Netophati, 
Ithai Ben Rivai of Giv'ah, that pertained to the Bnei Binyamin, Benayah the Pir'athoni, 
Churai of the brooks of Ga'ash, Aviel the Arbati, 
Azmavet the Bacharumi, Elyachba the Sha'alboni, 
The Bnei Hashem the Gizoni, Yonatan Ben Shage the Harari, 
Achiam Ben Sachar the Harari, Eliphal Ben Ur, 
Chepher the Mecherati, Achiyah the Peloni, 
Chetzro the Karmeli, Na'arai Ben Ezbai, 
Yoel the brother of Natan, Mivchar Ben Hagri, 
Tzelek the Ammoni, Nachrai the Beroti, the armorbearer of Yoav ben Tzeruyah, 
Ira the Yitri, Garev the Yitri, 
Uriyah the Chitti, Zavad Ben Achlai, 
Adina Ben Shiza the Reuveni, a rosh of the Reubeni, and shloshim with him, 
Chanan Ben Ma'achah, and Yoshaphat the Mitni, 
Uzzia the Ashterati, Shama and Ye'iel the Bnei Chotam the Aroeri, 
Yedi'ael Ben Shimri, and Yocha his brother, the Titzi, 
Eliel the Machavi, Yerivai, Yoshavyah, the Bnei Elna'am, Yitmah the Moavi, 
Eliel, Oved, and Ya'asiel the Metzovayah. 
