SHEMOT.
Chapter 24.
And He said unto Moshe, Come up unto Hashem, thou, and Aharon, Nadav, and Avihu, and shive'im (seventy) of the Ziknei Yisroel; and worship ye afar off. 
And Moshe alone shall come near Hashem; but they shall not come near; neither shall HaAm go up with him. 
And Moshe came and told HaAm kol divrei Hashem, and all the mishpatim; and kol HaAm answered with one voice, and said, All the words which Hashem hath said will we do. 
And Moshe wrote kol divrei Hashem, and rose up early in the boker, and built a Mizbe'ach at the base of HaHar, and twelve matzevah (stone pillars), according to the twelve Shivtei Yisroel. 
And he sent out na'arei Bnei Yisroel, which offered olot (burnt offerings), and sacrificed shelamim (peace offerings) of bulls unto Hashem. 
And Moshe took half of the dahm, and put it in bowls; and the other half of the dahm he sprinkled upon the Mizbe'ach. 
Then he took the Sefer HaBrit, and read it aloud in the ears of HaAm, and they responded, All that Hashem hath said we will do, and be obedient. 
And Moshe took the remaining dahm, and sprinkled it on HaAm, and said, Hinei dahm habrit, which Hashem hath cut with you concerning all these words. 
Then went up Moshe, and Aharon, Nadav, and Avihu, and shive'im Ziknei Yisroel; 
And they saw the Elohei Yisroel; and there was under His feet the likeness of sapphire stone pavement, and like the very Shomayim in its clearness. 
And against the leaders of the Bnei Yisroel He laid not His yad; also they saw HaElohim, and did eat and drink. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Come up to Me into HaHar, and remain there; and I will give thee the Luchot HaEven, and the torah, and the mitzvot which I have written to teach them. 
And Moshe rose up, and Yehoshua meshareto (the one aiding him, the one ministering to him); and Moshe went up into the Har HaElohim. 
And he said unto the Zekenim, Tarry ye here for us, until we come again unto you; and, hinei, Aharon and Chur are with you; if any man have a grievance, let him come unto them. 
And Moshe went up into HaHar, and an anan concealed HaHar. 
And the Kevod Hashem abode upon Mt. Sinai, and the anan concealed it sheshet yamim; and the yom hashevi'i He called unto Moshe out of the midst of the anan. 
And the sight of the Kevod Hashem was like eish ochelet (devouring fire) on the top of HaHar in the eyes of the Bnei Yisroel. 
And Moshe went into the midst of the anan, going up into HaHar; and Moshe was in HaHar arba'im yom v'arba'im lailah. 
