BERESHIS.
Chapter 35.
And Elohim said unto Ya'akov, Arise, go up to Beit-El, and settle there; and make there a Mizbe'ach unto El (G-d) that appeared unto thee when thou didst flee from the face of Esav achicha. 
Then Ya'akov said unto his Bais, and to all that were with him, Put away the elohei hanekhar that are among you, and be tahor, and change your simlah (garments); 
And let us arise, and go up to Beit-El; and I will build there a Mizbe'ach unto El (G-d) Who answered me in my yom tzoros, and was with me in the derech in which I went. 
And they gave unto Ya'akov kol elohei hanekhar which were in their yad, and all their nezamim which were in their oznayim; and Ya'akov buried them under the elah (terebinth) which was at Shechem. 
And they journeyed; and the chittat Elohim (terror of G-d) was upon the cities that were around them, and they did not pursue after the Bnei Ya'akov. 
So Ya'akov came to Luz, which is in Eretz Kena'an, that is, Beit-El, he and kol haAm that were with him. 
And he built there a Mizbe'ach, and called the makom (place) El Beit-El; because there HaElohim appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of achiv. 
But Devorah meineket Rivkah died, and she was buried under an alon (oak) below Beit-El; and shmo was called Alon Bachut. 
And Elohim appeared unto Ya'akov again, when he returned from Paddan-Aram, and made a brocha upon him. 
And Elohim said unto him, Shimcha is Ya'akov; shimcha shall not be called any more Ya'akov, but Yisroel shall be shemecha; and He called shmo Yisroel. 
And Elohim said unto him, I am El Shaddai; be fruitful and multiply; a Goy (nation) and a Kehal Goyim shall be from thee, and Melechim shall come out of thy loins; 
And HaAretz which I gave Avraham and Yitzchak, to thee I will give it, and to thy zera after thee will I give HaAretz. 
And Elohim went up from him in the makom where He talked with him. 
And Ya'akov set up a matzevah (pillar, monument) in the makom where He talked with him, even a matzevat even (pillar of stone); and he poured a nesech (drink offering) thereon, and he poured shemen (oil) thereon. 
And Ya'akov called the shem of the makom where Elohim spoke with him, Beit-El. 
And they journeyed from Beit-El; and there was still a space of ha'aretz to get to Ephratah; and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labor. 
And it came to pass, when she was in hard labor, that the meyaledet (midwife) said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this ben also. 
And it came to pass, as her nefesh was in departing, (for she died) that she called shmo Ben-Oni (Son of Affliction); but aviv called him Binyamin. 
And Rachel died, and was buried on the derech to Ephratah, which is Beit-Lechem. 
And Ya'akov set up a matzevah upon her kever; that is matzevet kevurat Rachel to this day. 
And Yisroel journeyed, and pitched his ohel beyond Migdal-Eder. 
And it came to pass, when Yisroel dwelt in that land, that Reuven went and lay with Bilhah pilegesh aviv and Yisroel heard it. Now the Bnei Ya'akov were Sheneym Asar (Twelve); 
The Bnei Leah: Reuven bechor Ya'akov, and Shim'on, and Levi, and Yehudah, and Yissakhar, and Zevulun; 
The Bnei Rachel: Yosef, and Binyamin; 
And the Bnei Bilhah shifchat Rachel: Dan, and Naphtali; 
And the Bnei Zilpah shifchat Leah: Gad, and Asher; these are the Bnei Ya'akov, which were born to him in Paddan-Aram. 
And Ya'akov came unto Yitzchak Aviv unto Mamre, unto Kiriat-HaArba, which is Chevron, where Avraham and Yitzchak sojourned. 
And the days of Yitzchak were me'at shanah u'shemonim shanah. 
And Yitzchak expired, and died, and was gathered unto his people, being zaken (old) and full of yamim; and his banim Esav and Ya'akov buried him. 
