IYOV.
Chapter 29.
Moreover Iyov continued his mashal, and said, 
Oh that I were as in months past, as in the days when Eloah was shomer over me; 
When His ner (lamp) shined upon my rosh, and when by His ohr I walked through choshech; 
As I was in the days of my prime, when the Sod Eloah (friendship, counsel of G-d) was over my ohel; 
When Shaddai was yet with me, when my children were around me; 
When I washed my steps with khemah, and the tzur poured me out streams of shemen; 
When I went out to the sha'ar through the city, when I took my moshav in the rekhov! 
The ne'arim saw me, and stepped aside, and the aged arose, and stood up. 
The sarim (nobles) refrained from talking, and laid their hand on their mouth. 
The nobles held their peace, and their leshon cleaved to the roof of their mouth. 
When the ozen heard me, then it commended me; and when the ayin saw me, it did bear witness of me, 
Because I delivered the oni that cried out, and the yatom that had no ozer (helper) for him. 
The birkat oved (blessing of the oppressed) came upon me, and I caused the lev almanah to sing for joy. 
I put on tzedek, and it clothed me; my mishpat was as a robe and a tzanif (turban). 
I was eyes to the ivver, and feet was I to the pisei'ach. 
I was an av to the evyonim (needy); and the cause which I knew not I investigated. 
And I broke the fangs of the wicked, and plucked the prey out of his shinayim. 
Then I said, I shall die in my ken (nest, house), and I shall multiply my yamim like the chol (sand). 
My shoresh was spread out to the mayim, and the tal lay all night upon my branch. 
My kavod was fresh with me, and my keshet was ever new in my yad. 
Unto me men gave ear, and waited, and kept silence at my etzah (counsel). 
Acharei (after) my words they spoke not again; and my speech fell upon them. 
And they waited for me as for the matar; and they opened their mouth wide as for the malkosh (spring, late rain). 
I smiled on them when they did not believe; and the ohr of my countenance they did not cast down. 
I chose out their derech, and sat as Rosh, and dwelt as a melech with his army, as one that comforteth the avelim (mourners). 
