BERESHIS.
Chapter 4.
And HaAdam knew Chavah (Eve) his isha; and she conceived, and bore Kayin (Cain), and said, Kaniti (I have acquired) ish with Hashem. 
And again she bore his ach Hevel (Abel). And Hevel was a ro'eh tzon, but Kayin was an oved adamah (tiller of soil). 
And in ketz yamim it came to pass, that Kayin brought of the p'ri haadamah a minchah unto Hashem. 
And Hevel, he also brought of the bechorot of his tzon and of the chelev thereof. And Hashem regarded with favor, respect unto Hevel and to his minchah: 
But unto Kayin and to his minchah He had not regard. And Kayin was very angry, and his countenance fell. 
And Hashem said unto Kayin, Why art thou angry? And why is thy countenance fallen? 
If thou doest right, shalt thou not be accepted? And if thou doest not right, chattat is lurking at the petach. And unto thee shall be its teshukah (desire), and thou must rule over it. 
And Kayin talked with Hevel his brother; and it came to pass, when they were in the sadeh, that Kayin rose up against Hevel his brother, and killed him. 
And Hashem said unto Kayin, Where is Hevel thy brother? And he said, I know not; am I shomer achi (my brotherʼs keeper)? 
And He said, What hast thou done? The voice of thy brotherʼs dahm crieth unto Me from haadamah. 
And now art thou arur (cursed) from haadamah, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brotherʼs dahm from thy hand; 
When thou tillest haadamah, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her ko'ach (strength); na (restless fugitive) vanad (and a wanderer, nomad) shalt thou be in ha'aretz. 
And Kayin said unto Hashem, My avon (iniquity, punishment for guilt) is greater than I can bear. 
See, Thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the adamah; and from Thy face shall I be hidden and I shall be a na (restless fugitive) vanad (and a wanderer, nomad) in ha'aretz; and it shall come to pass, that whoever findeth me shall kill me. 
And Hashem said unto him, Therefore whoever killeth Kayin, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And Hashem placed an ot (mark) upon Kayin, so that none finding him should kill him. 
And Kayin went out from the presence of Hashem, and dwelt in Eretz Nod, east of Eden. 
And Kayin knew his isha; and she conceived, and bore Chanokh (Enoch); and he built an ir (city), and called the shem of the ir, after the shem beno, Chanokh (Enoch). 
And unto Chanokh (Enoch) was born Irad; and Irad fathered Mechuyael; and Mechuyael fathered Metushael; and Metushael fathered Lamech. 
And Lamech took unto him two nashim; the shem of the one was Adah, and the shem of the second Tzilah. 
And Adah bore Yaval; he was the av of such as dwell in ohel, and have mikneh. 
And his brotherʼs shem was Yuval; he was the av of all such as play kinnor (harp) and ugav (flute). 
And Tzilah, she also bore Tuval-Kayin, a forger of every cutting tool of nechoshet and barzel; and the achot of Tuval-Kayin was Na'amah. 
And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Tzilah, Hear my voice; ye wives of Lamech, give heed to my speech; for I have slain an ish for my wounding, and a yeled for my chabburah. 
If Kayin (Cain) shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and seven times over. 
And Adam knew his isha again; and she bore a ben, and called shmo Shet; for Elohim, said she, hath appointed me another zera in place of Hevel, whom Kayin killed. 
And to Shet, to him also there was born a ben; and he called shmo Enosh; then began men to call upon the Shem of Hashem. 
