HOSHEA.
Chapter 12.
Ephrayim compasseth Me about with kachash (lies), and Bais Yisroel with mirmar (deceit); but Yehudah still is unruly against El, and against Kadoshim (Holy One); Who is ne'eman. 
Ephrayim feedeth on wind, and chasing after the east wind; he daily increaseth kazav (lies) and sod (desolation); and cuts brit with the Assyrians, and shemen is sent to Mitzrayim. 
Hashem hath also a charge against Yehudah, and will visit punishment on Ya'akov according to his ways; according to his doings will He repay him. 
In the beten (womb) he (Ya'akov) akav (took at the heel) of his brother and by his strength he sarah (struggled with, persevered) with Elohim; 
Yea, he (Yisroel) sarah (had power over) the malach, and prevailed; he wept, and made techinnah unto Him; He found him at Beit-El, and there He spoke with us; 
Even Hashem Elohei Tzva'os; Hashem is His memorial Name! 
Therefore turn thou to Eloheicha; be shomer over chesed and mishpat and wait on Eloheicha tamid (continually). 
A kena'an (merchant), in whose hand are the scales of mirmar (deceit) He loveth to oppress. 
And Ephrayim boasts: Yet I am become an oisher, I have found me out wealth; in all my gain they shall find none avon (iniquity, offense) in me that would be chet (sin). 
And I that am Hashem Eloheicha from Eretz Mitzrayim will yet make thee to dwell in oholim, as in the yamei mo'ed. 
I have also spoken to the nevi'im, and I have multiplied chazon (vision, revelation, prophecy), and spoken parables by the nevi'im. 
Is there aven (iniquity) in Gil'ad? Surely they are vanity; they sacrifice bullocks in Gilgal; yea, their mizbechot are as piles of stones in the furrows of the fields. 
And Ya'akov fled into the country of Aram, and Yisroel served for an isha, and for an isha he was shomer over sheep. 
And by a navi Hashem brought Yisroel out of Mitzrayim, and shomer a navi was. 
Ephrayim has provoked bitter anger; therefore shall He leave his blood-guiltiness upon him, and his scorn shall Adonoi of him return and repay unto him. 
