Malachi.
Chapter 1.
The burden of the Devar Hashem to Yisroel by Malachi. 
I have loved you, saith Hashem. Yet ye say: Wherein hast Thou loved us? Was not Esav Ya'akovʼs brother? saith Hashem; yet I loved Ya'akov, 
But I hated Esav, and his mountains and his nachalah I laid waste into wasteland for the jackals of the midbar. 
Whereas Edom saith: We are dashed to pieces, but we will return and rebuild the ruins; thus saith Hashem Tzva'os: They may build, but I will throw down; and they shall call them, Gevul Rishah (territory of wickedness), and the people against whom Hashem hath indignation ad olam (for ever). 
And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say: Hashem is gadol (great) even beyond the Gevul Yisroel. 
A ben honoreth his av, and an eved his adon; if then I be an Av, where is Mine honor? And if I be Adonim, where is My reverence? saith Hashem Tzva'os unto you, O kohanim, that despise My Name. But ye say: Wherein have we despised Thy name? 
Ye offer lechem mego'al (defiled food) upon Mine mizbe'ach; and ye say: Wherein have we defiled Thee? In that ye say: The shulchan of Hashem is to be despised. 
And when ye offer the blind animal for sacrifice, is it not rah? And when ye offer the lame and diseased, is it not rah? Offer it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee, or receive thee? saith Hashem Tzva'os. 
And now, I pray you, beseech G-d that He will be gracious unto us; with such offerings from your hand, will He receive you? saith Hashem Tzva'os. 
Who is there even among you that would shut the dlatayim of the Beis Hamikdash so that eish would not be kindled on Mine mizbe'ach in vain? There is no chefetz (pleasure) to Me with you, saith Hashem Tzva'os, neither will I accept a minchah at your hand. 
For from the rising of the shemesh even unto the going down of the same My name shall be gadol among the Goyim; and in every place incense shall be offered unto My name, and a minchah tehorah; for My name shall be gadol among the Goyim, saith Hashem Tzva'os. 
But ye have committed chillul Hashem(desecration of the Name), in that ye say: The shulchan Adonoi is mego'al (defiled); and the fruit, even the food thereof, is contemptible. 
Ye said also: Hinei, what a burden it is! And ye have sniffed scornfully at it, saith Hashem Tzva'os; and ye brought that which was injured, and the lame, and the diseased; thus ye brought a minchah; should I accept this of your hand? saith Hashem. 
But cursed be the nokhel (cheat, swindler, charlatan), which hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and sacrificeth unto Hashem the one being blemished; for I am a Melech Gadol, saith Hashem Tzva'os, and My name is to be feared among the Goyim. 
