2 Timotiyos.
Chapter 3.
But of this have da'as, that in the acharit hayamim there will be terrible times, 
For Bnei Adam will be in love with self, ohavei kesef (lovers of money), ga'avtanim (proud boasters), speakers of lashon hora, disobedient to horim (parents), without hakarat todah (gratitude), without kedushah, 
Without ahavah, unforgiving and irreconcilable, without shlitah atzmi (self-control), bestial, son'ei HaTov (haters of the Good), 
Treacherous, reckless, conceited, ohavei ta'anugot (lovers of pleasures) rather than ohavei Hashem, 
Having an outward form of chasidus but the ko'ach having denied. Turn away from these. 
For of such are the morim entering into homes and capturing weak-willed nashim laden with chatta'im, led away by various ta'avot, 
Always learning but never being able to come to da'as HaEmes. 
As Jannes and Jambres opposed Moshe Rabbeinu, so also these oppose HaEmes. These men have been corrupted in their mind and are failures with respect to the emunah, 
But they will not proceed very far, for the sichlut (folly, stupidity) of them will likewise become conspicuous to all. 
But you closely followed my torah, my halichah, my tachlis, my emunah, my savlanut (patience), my ahavah, my endurance, 
The redifot (persecutions) and Messianic yissurim (sufferings) which happened to me in Antioch, in Iconium, in Lystra, what kind of redifot I endured. And out of all Adoneinu rescued me. 
Also all the ones wanting to live as chasidim in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua will be persecuted, 
But anashim ra'im and impostors will progress to their abysmal worst, misleading and being misled. 
But, you, remain in the shiurim you learned, and the things you were convinced of, knowing under which rabbi you sat, 
And that from infancy you have known the Kitvei HaKodesh, which are able to make you chacham with a view to Yeshu'at Eloheynu through emunah in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
The entire Kitvei HaKodesh is Hashem-breathed and useful for hora'ah (teaching), for reproof, for correction, for training in tzedek, 
That the ish haElohim may be proficient, having been equipped for every one of the ma'asim tovim. 
