BERESHIS.
Chapter 26.
And there was a ra'av (famine) in ha'aretz, besides the ra'av harishon that was in the days of Avraham. And Yitzchak went unto Avimelech Melech Pelishtim (Philistines) unto Gerar. 
And Hashem appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Mitzrayim; dwell in ha'aretz which I shall tell thee of; 
Sojourn in ha'aretz hazot, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy zera, I will give all these lands, and I will perform the shevu'ah (oath) which I swore unto Avraham avichah; 
And I will make thy zera to multiply as the kokhavim of Shomayim, and will give unto thy zera all these lands; and in thy zera shall kol Goyei Ha'Aretz be blessed; 
Because Avraham obeyed My voice, and was shomer over My mishmeret (charge), My mitzvot, My chukkot, and My torot. 
And Yitzchak dwelt in Gerar; 
And the anshei hamakom asked him about his isha; and he said, She is my achot; for he feared to say, She is my isha; lest, said he, the anshei hamakom should kill me for Rivkah; because she was beautiful to look upon. 
And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Avimelech Melech Pelishtim (Philistines) looked out at a chalon, and saw, and, hinei, Yitzchak metzachek (was caressing) Rivkah his isha. 
And Avimelech called Yitzchak, and said, Hinei, of a surety she is thy isha; and why saidst thou, She is my achot? And Yitzchak said unto him, Because I said, Lest I die because of her. 
And Avimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? one of the people might lightly have slept with thy isha, and thou shouldest have brought asham (guilt) upon us. 
And Avimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth this man or his isha shall surely be put to death. 
Then Yitzchak sowed in that land, and reaped in the same year a hundredfold; and Hashem blessed him. 
And the man became very prosperous, and went forward, and grew until he became gadol me'od: 
For he had possession of tzon, and possession of cattle, and many avadim; and the Pelishtim envied him. 
For all the wells which avdei aviv had dug in the days of Avraham aviv, the Pelishtim had stopped them up, and filled them with dirt. 
And Avimelech said unto Yitzchak, Go from us; for thou art much mightier than we. 
And Yitzchak departed from there, and encamped in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there. 
And Yitzchak dug again the be'erot hamayim (wells of water), which they had dug in the days of Avraham aviv; for the Pelishtim had stopped them up after the mot Avraham; and he called their shemot after the shemot by which his av had called them. 
And avdei Yitzchak dug in the valley, and found there a well of mayim chayyim. 
And the herdmen of Gerar did quarrel with Yitzchakʼs herdmen, saying, The mayim is ours; and he called the shem of the well Esek (Contention); because they disputed with him. 
And they dug another be'er, and feuded over that also; and he called the shem of it Sitnah (Enmity). 
And he moved away from there, and dug another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the shem of it Rechovot (Broad Places); and he said, For now Hashem hath made rachav (room) for us, and we shall be fruitful in ha'aretz. 
And he went up from there to Be'er-Sheva. 
And Hashem appeared unto him balailah hahu, and said, I am Elohei Avraham avichah; fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy zera for the sake of Avdi Avraham (My Servant Abraham). 
And he built a Mizbe'ach there, and called upon the Shem of Hashem, and pitched his ohel there: and there avdei Yitzchak dug a well. 
Then Avimelech went to him from Gerar, and Achuzzat his adviser, and Phichol the sar tz'va of his. 
And Yitzchak said unto them, Why come ye to me, seeing ye hate me, and have sent me away from you? 
And they said, We saw certainly that Hashem was with thee; and we said, Let there be now an oath between us, even between us and thee, and let us cut a brit (covenant) with thee; 
That thou wilt do us no ra'ah, just as we have not touched thee, and just as we have done unto thee nothing but tov, and have sent thee away in shalom; thou art now the Gebentshter fun Hashem(the blessed of Hashem). 
And he made them a mishteh (feast), and they did eat and drink. 
And they rose up early in the boker, and swore one to another: and Yitzchak sent them away, and they departed from him in shalom. 
And it came to pass the same day, that the avdei Yitzchak came, and told him concerning the be'er which they had dug, and said unto him, We have found mayim. 
And he called it Shevah (Seven, Oath): therefore the shem of the Ir is Be'er-Sheva unto this day. 
And Esav was arba'im shanah when he took to wife Yehudit the bat Be'eri the Chitti, and Basmat the bat Elon the Chitti: 
and they were a morat ruach (grief of mind) unto Yitzchak and Rivkah. 
