YESHAYAH.
Chapter 43.
But now thus saith Hashem that created thee, O Ya'akov, And He that formed thee, O Yisroel: Fear not, for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy shem; thou art Mine. 
When thou passest through the mayim, I will be with thee; and through the neharot, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the eish, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. 
For I am Hashem Eloheicha, the Kadosh Yisroel, thy Moshi'a: I gave Mitzrayim for thy kofer (ransom), Kush and Seva in thy place. 
Since thou wast precious in My sight, thou hast been honored, and I have loved thee: therefore will I give adam in exchange for thee, and people in exchange for thy nefesh. 
Fear not; for I am with thee: I will bring thy zera from the mizrach (east), and gather thee from the ma'arav (west); 
I will say to the tzafon (north), Give them up; and to the teiman (south), hold not back; bring My banim from afar, and My banot from the ketzeh ha'aretz; 
Even every one that is called by My Shem, whom I have created for My kavod, whom I have formed and I have made. 
Bring forth the Am Ivver that have eyes, and the chereshim that have oznayim. 
Let kol HaGoyim be gathered together, and let the peoples be assembled; who among them can declare this, and show us rishonot (former things)? Let them bring forth their edim (witnesses), that they may be vindicated: or let them hear, and say, It is emes. 
Ye are My edim (witnesses), saith Hashem. And Avdi whom I have chosen, so that ye may know and believe Me, and understand that Ani Hu (I am He); before Me there was no El formed, neither shall there be after Me. 
I, even I, am Hashem; and apart from Me there is no Moshi'a. 
I have declared, and have saved, and I have proclaimed, when there was no zar (foreign) g-d among you; therefore you are My edim (witnesses), saith Hashem, that I am El. 
Yes, before the yom was, Ani Hu (I am He); and there is none that can deliver out of My Yad; I work, and who shall reverse it? 
Thus saith Hashem, your Go'el, the Kadosh Yisroel; For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and I shall bring down the fugitives, all of them, even the Kasdim (Chaldeans), whose shout of joy is in the ships. 
I am Hashem, your Kadosh, t the Boreh Yisroel, your Melech. 
Thus saith Hashem, which maketh a derech in the yam, and a path in the mayim azzim (mighty waters); 
Which drew out the merkavah and sus, the army and warrior; they shall lie down together, they shall not rise; they are extinct, they are quenched like a wick. 
Remember ye not the rishonot (former things) neither consider kadmoniyyot (the things of old). 
Hineni, I am doing a chadashah (new thing); now titzmach (it shall spring forth; Tzemach); shall ye not perceive it? I will even make a derech in the midbar, and neharot in the desert. 
The animal of the wild shall honor Me, the jackals and the ostriches; because I give mayim in the midbar, and neharot in the desert, to give drink to My People, My Bachir. 
This people have I formed for Myself; they shall show forth My tehillah (praise). 
But thou hast not called upon Me, O Ya'akov; but thou hast been weary of Me, O Yisroel. 
Thou hast not brought Me the seh (lamb) of thy olot; neither hast thou honored Me with thy zevakhim. I have not caused thee to serve with a minchah, nor wearied thee with levonah (incense, frankincense). 
Thou hast bought Me no fragrant calamus with kesef, neither hast thou filled Me with the chelev of thy zevakhim; but thou hast wearied Me with thy chattot, thou hast wearied Me with thine avonot. 
I, even I, am He that blotteth out thy peysha'im for Mine own sake, and will not remember thy chattot. 
Put Me in remembrance; let us plead together at law; declare thou, lema'an (for the sake of) thou being declared righteous. 
Avicha HaRishon hath sinned, and thy melitzim (mediators) have rebelled against Me. 
Therefore I have profaned the Sarei Kodesh, (Holy Princes) and have given Ya'akov to cherem, and Yisroel to giddufim (revilings). 
