YEHOSHUA.
Chapter 13.
Now Yehoshua was zaken, advanced in yamim; Hashem said unto him, Thou art old, advanced in yamim; HaAretz there remaineth yet harebbeh me'od to be possessed. 
This is HaAretz that yet remaineth; all the regions of the Pelishtim, and all Geshuri, 
From Sichor, which is before Mitzrayim, even unto the territory of Ekron northward, which is counted to the Kena'ani; five rulers of the Pelishtim; the Azzati, the Ashdodi, the Ashkeloni, the Gitti, the Ekroni; also the Avim; 
From the south, all the Eretz HaKena'ani, and from Arah that belongs to the Tzidonim unto Aphek, to the region of HaEmori; 
And the area of the Byblos, and all the Levanon, toward the rising of the shemesh, from Ba'al-Gad under Mt Chermon unto Levo Chamat. 
All the inhabitants of the har from the Levanon unto Misrephot-Mayim, and all the Tzidonim, them will I drive out from before the Bnei Yisroel; only divide thou it by lot unto Yisroel for a nachalah, as I have commanded thee. 
Now therefore divide HaAretz Hazot for a nachalah unto the nine Shevatim, and the half tribe of Menasheh, 
With whom the Reuveni and the Gadi have received their nachalah, which Moshe gave them, beyond Yarden eastward, even as Moshe Eved Hashem gave them; 
From Aro'er, that is upon the rim of the Arnon Valley, and the town that is in the middle of the valley, and all the plain of Medeva unto Divon; 
And all the towns of Sichon Melech HaEmori, which reigned in Cheshbon, unto the border of the Bnei Ammon; 
And Gil'ad, and the territory of the Geshuri and Ma'akhati, and all Mt Chermon, and all Bashan as far as Salkhah; 
All the Mamlechut Og in Bashan, which reigned in Ashtarot and in Edre'i, who remained of the remnant of Repha'im; for these did Moshe conquer, and dispossessed them. 
Nevertheless the Bnei Yisroel dispossessed not the Geshuri, nor the Ma'akhati; but the Geshuri and the Maachati dwell among Yisroel until this day. 
Only unto the shevet HaLevi he gave no nachalah; the sacrifices made by eish of Hashem Elohei Yisroel are their nachalah, as He said unto them. 
And Moshe gave unto the tribe of the Bnei Reuven according to their mishpekhot; 
Territory to them from Aro'er, that is on the rim of the Arnon Valley, and the town that is in the middle of the valley, and all the plain past Medeva; 
Cheshbon, and all its towns that are in the plain; Divon, and Bamot-Ba'al, and Beit-Ba'al Me'on, 
And Yahtzah, and Kedemot, and Mepha'at, 
And Kiryatayim, and Sivmah, and Tzeret-HaShachar on the har in the valley, 
And Beit-Pe'or, and slopes of Pisgah, and Beit-HaYeshimot, 
And all the towns of the plain, and kol mamlechot Shichon Melech HaEmori, who reigned in Cheshbon, whom Moshe conquered with the nasiim of Midyan, Evi, and Rekem, and Tzur, and Chur, and Reva, which were vassal princes under Sichon, dwelling in HaAretz. 
Also Balaam ben Be'or, the kosem (soothsayer, practicer of divination), did the Bnei Yisroel put to death with the cherev among them that were slain by them. 
And the boundary of the Bnei Reuven was the Yarden, and the bank thereof. This was the nachalat Bnei Reuven after their mishpekhot, the towns and villages thereof. 
And Moshe gave unto the tribe of Gad, even unto the Bnei Gad according to their mishpekhot; 
Territory to them, Yazer, and all the towns of Gil'ad, and half the Eretz Bnei Ammon, as far as Aro'er that is near Rabbah; 
And from Cheshbon unto Ramat HaMitzpeh, and Betonim; and from Machanayim unto the territory of Devir; 
And in the valley, Beit-Haram, and Beit-Nimrah, and Sukkot, and Tzaphon, the rest of the Mamlechot Sichon Melech Cheshbon, the Yarden and its territory, even unto the end of the Yam Kinneret on the other side of the Yarden eastward. 
This is the nachalah of the Bnei Gad after their mishpekhot, the towns, and their villages. 
And Moshe gave unto the half tribe of Menasheh; and this was the possession of the half tribe of the Bnei Menasheh by their mishpekhot. 
Their territory was from Machanayim, all Bashan, kol Mamlechot Og Melech HaBashan, and all the towns of Yair, which are in Bashan, shishim ir; 
And half Gil'ad, and Ashtarot, and Edre'i, towns of the Mamlechot Og in Bashan, were pertaining unto the Bnei Machir ben Menasheh, even to the one half of the Bnei Machir by their mishpekhot. 
These which Moshe did distribute for nachalah in the plains of Moav, on the other side of the Yarden, by Yericho, eastward. 
But unto the Shevet HaLevi Moshe gave not any nachalah; Hashem Elohei Yisroel was their nachalah, as He said unto them. 
