VAYIKRA.
Chapter 23.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, and say unto them, Concerning the Mo'adim of Hashem, which ye shall proclaim to be mikra'ei kodesh, even these are My Mo'adim. 
Sheshet yamim shall work be done; but the yom hashevi'i is the Shabbos of Shabbaton, a mikra kodesh; ye shall do no work therein: it is the Shabbos to Hashem in all your dwellings. 
These are the Moa'dim of Hashem, even mikra'ei kodesh, which ye shall proclaim in their mo'adim. 
In the fourteenth day of the first month at twilight is Hashemʼs Pesach. 
And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the Chag HaMatzot unto Hashem; shivat yamim ye must eat matzot. 
In the Yom HaRishon ye shall have a mikra kodesh; ye shall do no melekhet avodah therein. 
But ye shall offer an offering made by eish unto Hashem shivat yamim; in the seventh day is a mikra kodesh; ye shall do no melekhet avodah therein. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, and say unto them, When ye be come into HaAretz which I am giving unto you, and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye shall bring an omer (sheaf of barley)  of the reshit of your harvest unto the kohen; 
And he shall wave the omer before Hashem, for your acceptance; on the day after the Shabbos the kohen shall wave it. 
And ye shall offer that day when ye wave the omer a keves tamim of the first year for an olah unto Hashem. 
And the minchah thereof shall be two tenths-ephah of fine flour mingled with shemen, an offering made by eish unto Hashem for a re'ach nicho'ach; and the nesekh thereof shall be of yayin, the fourth part of a hin. 
And ye shall eat neither lechem, nor roasted grain, nor plump kernels until the same day that ye have brought a korban unto Eloheichem; it shall be a chukkat olam throughout your dorot in all your dwellings. 
And ye shall count unto you from the day after the Shabbos, from the day that ye brought the omer of the wave offering; shevah shabbatot shall be complete, 
Even unto the day after the seventh Shabbos shall ye count fifty days; and ye shall offer a minchah chadashah unto Hashem. 
Ye shall bring out of your dwellings two lechem wave-offerings of two tenth ephah; they shall be of fine flour; they shall be baked with chametz; they are the bikkurim unto Hashem. 
And ye shall offer with the lechem shivat kevasim temimim of the first year, and one young bull, and two rams; they shall be for an olah unto Hashem, with their minchot, and their nesakhim, even an offering made by eish, of re'ach nicho'ach unto Hashem. 
Then ye shall sacrifice one kid of the goats for a chattat and two kevasim of the first year for a zevach of shelamim. 
And the kohen shall wave them with the lechem of the bikkurim for a wave offering before Hashem, with the two kevasim; they shall be kodesh to Hashem for the kohen. 
And ye shall proclaim on the same day, that it may be a mikra kodesh unto you; ye shall do no melekhet avodah therein; it shall be a chukkat olam in all your dwellings throughout your dorot. 
And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not reap to the edges of thy sadeh when thou reapest, neither shalt thou gather the gleanings of thy harvest; thou shalt leave them unto the oni (poor), and to the ger: I am Hashem Eloheichem. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, saying, In the seventh month, in the first day of the month, shall ye have a Shabbaton, a zikhron teru'ah mikra kodesh. 
Ye shall do no melekhet avodah therein; but ye shall offer an offering made by eish unto Hashem. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Also on the tenth day of this seventh month there shall be Yom Kippurim; it shall be a mikra kodesh unto you; and ye shall afflict your nefashot, and offer an offering made by eish unto Hashem. 
And ye shall do no work in that same day; for it is Yom Kippurim, to make kapporah for you before Hashem Eloheichem. 
For whatsoever nefesh it be that shall not be afflicted in that same day, he shall be cut off from among his people. 
And whatsoever nefesh it be that doeth any work in that same day, that nefesh will I destroy from among his people. 
Ye shall do no manner of work; it shall be a chukkat olam throughout your dorot in all your dwellings. 
It shall be unto you a Shabbos Shabbaton, and ye shall afflict your nefashot; in the ninth day of the month at erev, from erev unto erev, shall ye observe your Shabbos. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, saying, The fifteenth day of this seventh month shall be the Chag HaSukkot for shivat yamim unto Hashem. 
On the Yom HaRishon shall be a mikra kodesh; ye shall do no melekhet avodah (laborious work) therein. 
Shivat yamim ye shall offer an offering made by eish unto Hashem; on the eighth day shall be a mikra kodesh unto you; and ye shall offer an offering made by eish unto Hashem; it is an atzeret (assembly); and ye shall do no melekhet avodah therein. 
These are the Mo'adim of Hashem, which ye shall proclaim to be mikra'ei kodesh, to offer an offering made by eish unto Hashem — an olah (burnt offering), and a minchah, a zevach, and nesakhim, every required thing upon its day, 
Beside the Shabbatot of Hashem, and beside your mattenot, and beside all your nederim, and beside all your nedavot (freewill offerings), which ye give unto Hashem. 
Also in the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the crop of HaAretz, ye shall keep a Chag (Feast) unto Hashem shivat yamim; on the first day shall be a Shabbaton, and on the eighth day shall be a Shabbaton. 
And ye shall take you on the Yom HaRishon the fruit of the citron tree, branches of temarim (date palms), and twigs of plaited trees, and willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before Hashem Eloheichem shivat yamim. 
And ye shall keep it a Chag (Feast) unto Hashem shivat yamim in the shanah. It shall be a chukkat olam in your dorot; ye shall celebrate it in the seventh month. 
Ye shall dwell in sukkot shivat yamim; all that are the Ezrach Yisroel shall dwell in sukkot, 
That your dorot may know that I made the Bnei Yisroel to dwell in sukkot, when I brought them out of Eretz Mitzrayim: I am Hashem Eloheichem. 
And Moshe declared unto the Bnei Yisroel the Mo'adim of Hashem. 
