YESHAYAH.
Chapter 65.
I let Myself be sought of them that asked not for Me; I let Myself be found of them that sought me not; I said: Hineni, behold Me, unto a Goy (Nation, People) that was not called by My Shem. 
I have spread out My yad kol hayom unto an Am Sorer (stubbornly rebellious people), which walketh in a derech lo tov, after their own machshevot (thoughts); 
HaAm that provoketh Me to anger continually to My face; that sacrificeth in ganot (gardens), and burneth sacrifices upon brick; 
Which remain among the kevarim, and spend the night in closed places, which eat basar hachazir, and broth of piggulim(unclean meat) in their vessels; 
Which say: Stand by thyself, come not near to me; for I am kadosh to thee (holier than thou). These are a smoke in My nose, an eish that burneth kol hayom. 
Hinei, it is written before Me: I will not keep silent, but will recompense fully, even recompense into their kheyk, 
Your avonot, and the iniquities of your avot together, saith Hashem, because they burned sacrifices upon the mountains, and insulted Me upon the hills; therefore will I measure their former peulot into their kheyk. 
Thus saith Hashem: As the tirosh is found in the cluster, and one saith: Destroy it not; for a brocha is in it; so will I do in behalf of My Servants, that I may not destroy them all. 
And I will bring forth a zera out of Ya'akov, and out of Yehudah a yoresh (inheritor) of My mountains; and Mine Bechir (Chosen ones) shall inherit it, and My Servants shall dwell there. 
And Sharon shall be a meadow for tzon, and the valley of Achor a place for the flock to lie down, for Ami (My People) who seek Me. 
But ye are they that forsake Hashem, that forget My Har Kadosh, that prepare a shulchan for Fortune, and that furnish the drink offering for Destiny. 
Therefore will I destine you for the cherev, and ye shall all bow down to the slaughtering place; because when I called, ye did not answer; when I spoke, ye did not hear; but did the rah before Mine eyes, and did choose that wherein I delighted not. 
Therefore thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Hinei, My Servants shall eat, but ye shall be hungry; hinei, My Servants shall drink, but ye shall be thirsty; hinei, My Servants shall rejoice, but ye shall be ashamed; 
Hinei, My Servants shall sing for joy of lev, but ye shall cry out from anguish of lev, and shall wail from brokenness of ruach. 
And ye shall leave your shem for a curse unto My Bechir; for Adonoi Hashem shall put thee to death, and call His Avadim by another shem; 
That he who blesseth himself in ha'aretz shall bless himself by Elohei Omein (the G-d of the Amen, the G-d of Truth); and he that taketh an oath in ha'aretz shall take the oath by Elohei Omein; because the former tzoros are forgotten, and because they are hid from Mine eyes. 
For, hinei, I create Shomayim Chadashim and eretz Chadashah; and the rishonot shall not be remembered, nor come into mind. 
But be ye glad and rejoice forever in that which I create; for, hinei, I create Yerushalayim a rejoicing, and her people a joy. 
And I will rejoice in Yerushalayim, and joy in Ami; and the voice of weeping shall be no more heard in her, nor the voice of crying out. 
There shall be no more in there an infant of days, nor a zaken (old man) that hath not filled his days; for he that shall die a hundred years old will be regarded a na'ar; but the choteh (sinner), a hundred years old, will be accursed. 
And they shall build batim (houses), and inhabit them; and they shall plant kramim (vineyards), and eat the fruit of them. 
They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat; for as the days of HaEtz are the days of Ami, and Mine Bechir shall long enjoy the ma'aseh of their hands. 
They shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth for misfortune; for they are the Zera Beruchei Hashem(Seed of the Blessed ones of Hashem), and their offspring with them. 
And it shall come to pass, that before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet medaberim (speaking), I will hear. 
The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox; and aphar shall be the lechem of the nachash. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all My Har Kadosh, saith Hashem. 
