BERESHIS.
Chapter 39.
And Yosef was brought down to Mitzrayim; and Potiphar, a saris Pharaoh, Sar Hatabachim (captain of the bodyguard), a Mitzri, bought him of the hands of the Yishm'elim, which had brought him down to there. 
And Hashem was with Yosef, and he was an ish matzliach (a man G-d makes prosper); and he was in the bais adonav haMitzri. 
And adonav saw that Hashem was with him, and that Hashem caused all that he did matzliach in his yad. 
And Yosef found chen in his eyes, and he ministered to him; and he made him mefake'ach (overseer) over his bais, and all that he had he entrusted into his yad. 
And it came to pass from the time that he had made him mefake'ach (overseer) in his bais, and over all that he had, that Hashem put a brocha on the bais haMitzri on account of Yosef; and the birkat Hashem was upon all that he had in the bais, and in the sadeh. 
And he left all that he had in the yad Yosef; and he knew not ought he had, save the lechem which he did eat. And Yosef was yafeh to'ar (well built) and yafeh mareh (good looking). 
And it came to pass after these things, that eshet adonav cast her eyes upon Yosef; and she said, Lie with me. 
But he refused, and said unto eshet adonav, Look, with me here, adoni knows not what is in the bais, and he hath entrusted all that he hath to my yad; 
There is none gadol in this bais than I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me except thee only, because thou art his isha; how then can I do hara'ah hagedolah hazot, and commit chattat against Elohim? 
And it came to pass, as she spoke to Yosef yom yom, that he unto her lo shama (did not pay heed), to lie with her, or to be with her. 
And it came to pass about this time, that Yosef went into the bais to do his melachah (work); and there was none of the anshei habayit there within. 
And she caught him by his beged, saying, Lie with me; and he left his beged in her yad, and fled, and ran outside. 
And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his beged in her yad, and had fled outside, 
That she called unto her anshei habayit, and spoke unto them, saying, Look, he hath brought in unto us an ish Ivri to show disrespect and mock us. He came in unto me to lie with me, and I screamed with a kol gadol (loud voice); 
And it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and screamed, that he left his beged with me, and fled, and ran outside. 
And she laid up his beged by her, until adonav came to his bais. 
And she spoke unto him according to these words, saying, The eved HaIvri, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to show disrespect and mock me; 
And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and screamed, that he left his beged with me, and fled outside. 
And it came to pass, when adonav heard the words of his isha, which she spoke unto him, saying, After this manner did thy eved to me; that his wrath was kindled. 
And adonei Yosef took him, and put him into the bais hasohar, a place where the asirei HaMelech were prisoners; and he was there in the bais hasohar. 
But Hashem was with Yosef, and showed him chesed, and gave him chen in the eyes of the sar bais hasohar. 
And the sar bais hasohar entrusted to the yad Yosef all the asirim (prisoners) that were in the bais hasohar; and whatsoever they did there, he was the accomplisher of it. 
The sar bais hasohar looked not to anything that was under his Yosefʼs yad; because Hashem was with him, and that which he did, Hashem made it to prosper. 
