YESHAYAH.
Chapter 3.
For, hinei, HaAdon, Hashem Tzva'os, doth take away from Yerushalayim and from Yehudah supply and support, the whole supply of lechem, and the whole supply of mayim. 
The Gibbor, and the Ish Milchamah, the Shofet, and the Navi, the Diviner, and the Zaken, 
The sar chamishim, the men of rank and yo'etz (counselor), and masters in art, and the expert enchanter. 
And I will make ne'arim (lads) to be their sarim, and babes shall rule over them. 
And HaAm shall be oppressed, every one by another, and every one by his re'a; the na'ar shall behave himself proudly against the zaken, and the base against the honorable. 
When an ish shall take hold of his brother of his bais avi, saying, Thou hast clothing, be thou our katzin, and let this ruin be under thy yad; 
In Yom Hahu shall he protest, saying, I am no curer of your ills; for in my bais is neither lechem nor simlah (clothing); make me not a Katzin Am. 
For Yerushalayim is ruined, and Yehudah fallen; because their leshon and their deeds are against Hashem, to provoke the eyes of His kavod. 
The show of their countenance doth testify against them; and they make known their chet like S'dom; they conceal it not. Oy to their nefesh! For they do ra'ah unto themselves. 
Say ye to the tzaddik, that it shall be tov with him; for they shall eat the p'ri of their deeds. 
Oy to the rasha! It shall be rah with him; for what his hands have wrought will be done to him. 
As for My people, children are their nogesim (taskmasters), and nashim rule over them. O My people, they which lead thee cause thee to go astray, misleading and swallowing up the Derech Orkhot (way of paths) of thee. 
Hashem hath stood to accuse, and standeth for Din (judging) the Amim (Nations). 
Hashem will enter into mishpat with the Ziknei Amo (Elders of His People), and the sarim thereof; for ye have eaten up the kerem (vineyard); the plunder of the oni is in your batim (houses). 
What mean ye that ye crush Ami, and grind the faces of the aniyim? saith Adonoi Hashem Tzva'os. 
Moreover Hashem saith, Because the Banot Tziyon are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and winking eyes, walking and tripping along as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet; 
Therefore Adonoi will strike with a scab the kodkod (top of the head) Banot Tziyon, and Hashem will lay bare their nakedness. 
In Yom Hahu, Adonoi will take away the fine show of their tinkling ornaments about their feet, and their headbands, and their crescent necklaces, 
the earrings, and the bracelets, and the veils, 
the diadems, and the ankle chains, and the girdles, and the perfume bottles, and the lechashim (amulets), 
the taba'ot (rings), and nose rings, 
the machalatzot (festal robes), and the mantles, and the cloaks, and the charitim (money purses), 
the hand mirrors, and the sedinim (linen coverings), and the tzenifot (turbans), and the veils. 
And it shall come to pass, that instead of fragrance there shall be stench; and instead of a sash, a rope; and instead of well-set hair, baldness; and instead of a rich cloak, a wrapping of sak (sackcloth); and branding instead of yofi (beauty). 
Thy men shall fall by the cherev, and thy gevurah in milchamah. 
And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she being desolate shall sit upon ha'aretz. 
