DIVREY HAYAMIM ALEF.
Chapter 17.
Now it came to pass, as Dovid sat in his bais, that Dovid said to Natan HaNavi, Hinei, I dwell in a bais ha'arazim (a palace of cedars) but the Aron Brit Hashem dwelleth under tent curtains. 
Then Natan said to Dovid, Do all that is in thine levav; for HaElohim is with thee. 
And it came to pass the same lailah, that the Devar Elohim came to Natan, saying, 
Go and tell Dovid Avdi, Thus saith Hashem, Thou shalt not build Me HaBayit to dwell in, 
For I have not dwelt in a Bayit since the day that I brought up Yisroel until this day, but have gone from ohel to ohel, and from one mishkan to another. 
Wheresoever I have walked with kol Yisroel, spoke I a word to any of the Shofetim of Yisroel, whom I commanded to shepherd My people, saying, Why have ye not built me a Bais Arazim? 
Now therefore thus shalt thou say unto Avdi Dovid, Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os, I took thee from the naveh, even from following the tzon, that thou shouldest be Nagid over My people Yisroel; 
And I have been with thee whithersoever thou hast walked, and have cut off all thine oyevim from before thee, and have made thee a shem like the shem of the gedolim that are in ha'aretz. 
Also I will ordain a makom for My people Yisroel, and will plant them, and they shall dwell in their place, and shall be moved no more; neither shall the bnei avel oppress them any more, as they did at the beginning, 
And since the time that I commanded Shofetim to be over My people Yisroel. Moreover I will subdue all thine oyevim. Furthermore I tell thee that Hashem will build thee a Bais (House, Dynasty). 
And it shall come to pass, when thy yamim are expired that thou must go to be with Avoteicha, that I will raise up thy zera after thee, which shall be of thy banim; and I will establish his Malchut (Messianic Kingdom). 
He shall build for Me a Bais, and I will establish his kisse ad olam. 
I will be his Av, and he shall be My Ben; and I will not take My chesed away from him, as I took it from him that was before thee, 
But I will set him in Mine Bais and in My Malchut ad olam, and his kisse shall be established ad olam. 
According to all these devarim, and according to all this chazon (revelation), so did Natan speak unto Dovid. 
And Dovid HaMelech came and sat before Hashem, and said, Who am I, Hashem Elohim, and what is mine bais, that Thou hast brought me hitherto? 
And as if this were not sufficient in Thine eyes, O Elohim, Thou hast also spoken of Bais Avdecha in the future afar off, and hast regarded me according to the estate of ha'adam hama'alah (the man of high degree), O Hashem Elohim. 
What more can Dovid speak to Thee regarding the kavod of Thy eved? For Thou hast da'as of Thy eved. 
Hashem, for the sake of Thy eved, and according to Thine own lev (heart, will), hast Thou done all this gedullah (greatness), in making known kol hagedulot (all great things). 
Hashem, there is none like Thee, neither is there any Elohim zulah (besides) Thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 
And what one goy (nation) in ha'aretz is like Thy people Yisroel, whom HaElohim went to redeem to be His own people, to make for Thee Shem Gedullot and Nora'ot, by driving out Goyim from before Thy people whom Thou hast redeemed out of Mitzrayim? 
For Thy people Yisroel didst Thou make Thine own people ad olam; Thou Hashem, became their Elohim. 
Therefore now, Hashem, let the davar that Thou hast spoken concerning Thy eved and concerning his Bais be established ad olam, and do as Thou hast said. 
Let it even be established, that Thy Shem may be magnified ad olam, saying, Hashem Tzva'os is Elohei Yisroel, even Elohim to Yisroel; let Bais Dovid Avdecha be established before Thee. 
For Thou, O Elohai, hast revealed in the ozen of Thy eved that Thou wilt build him a Bais; therefore Thy eved hath found to daven in prayer before Thee. 
Now, Hashem, Thou art HaElohim, and hast promised this tovah unto Thy eved. 
Now therefore let it please Thee to make brocha upon the Bais of Thy eved, that it may be before Thee l'olam; for Thou makest brocha Hashem, and it shall be mevorech l'olam (blessed forever). 
