SHEMOT.
Chapter 35.
And Moshe assembled kol Adat Bnei Yisroel, and said unto them, These are the Devarim which Hashem hath commanded, that ye should do them. 
Sheshet yamim shall work be done, but on the Yom HaShevi'i shall be to you plural Kodesh Shabbos Shabbaton to Hashem; whosoever doeth work therein shall be put to death. 
Ye shall kindle no eish throughout your habitations upon Yom HaShabbos. 
And Moshe spoke unto kol Adat Bnei Yisroel, saying, This is the thing which Hashem commanded, saying, 
Take ye from among you a terumah (offering) unto Hashem; all of nediv lev of him, let him bring it, a terumat Hashem, zahav, and kesef, and nechoshet, 
And turquoise, and purple, and scarlet wool, and fine linen, and goat hair, 
And red-dyed ram skins, and tachash skins, and acacia wood, 
And shemen for the light, and spices for shemen hamishchah, and for the aromatic ketoret, 
And shoham stones, and gemstones to be set for the Ephod, and for the Choshen. 
And kol chacham lev among you shall come, and make all that Hashem hath commanded: 
The Mishkan, its Ohel, and its Mikhseh, its hooks, and its kerashim (planks), its crossbars, its ammudim, and its sockets, 
The Aron, and the carrying poles thereof, with the Kapporet, and the Parochet HaMasach, 
The Shulchan, and its carrying poles, and all its utensils, and the Lechem HaPanim, 
The Menorat HaMaohr, and its utensils, and its nerot (lamps), with the Shemen HaMaohr, 
And the Mizbe'ach HaKetoret, and its carrying poles, and the Shemen HaMishchah, and the ketoret spices, and the masach hapetach at the petach of the Mishkan, 
The Mizbe'ach HaOlah, with its mikhbar hanechoshet, its carrying poles, and all its utensils, the Kiyor, and its Stand, 
The curtains of the khatzer, its ammudim, and its sockets, and the masach Sha'ar HaKhatzer, 
The tent pegs of the Mishkan, and the tent pegs of the khatzer, and their cords, 
The Bigdei HaSerad leSharet baKodesh (to do service in HaKodesh), the Bigdei HaKodesh for Aharon the kohen, and the garments of his banim, to minister in the kohenʼs office. 
And all the Adat Bnei Yisroel departed from the presence of Moshe. 
And they came, every one whose lev moved him, and every one of nedevah ruach of him, and they brought terumat Hashem to the work of the Ohel Mo'ed, and for kol avodat of it, and for the Bigdei HaKodesh. 
And they came, both anashim and nashim, as many as were nediv lev, and brought bracelets, and face-adornment rings, and rings, and body ornaments, all jewelry of zahav; and every ish that offered offered a tenufat zahav unto Hashem. 
And kol ish, with whom was found turquoise, and purple, and scarlet wool, and fine linen, and goat hair, and dyed red rams skin, and tachash skins, brought them. 
Every one that did offer a terumat kesef and nechoshet brought the terumat Hashem; and found acacia wood for any melachet haAvodah, brought it. 
And every isha that was chachmat lev spun with her hands, and brought the spun yarn, both of turquoise, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine linen. 
And all the nashim whose lev stirred them up in chochmah spun goat hair. 
And the nesi'im brought shoham stones, and gemstones to be set, for the Ephod, and for the Choshen; 
And spice, and shemen for the light, and for the shemen hamishchah, and for the ketoret spices. 
The Bnei Yisroel brought a nedavah unto Hashem, kol ish and isha, with nadav lev of them brought for kol hamelachah, which Hashem had commanded to be done through Moshe. 
And Moshe said unto the Bnei Yisroel, See, Hashem hath called by shem Betzalel ben Uri, ben Chur, of the tribe of Yehudah; 
And He hath filled him with the Ruach Elohim, in chochmah, in understanding, and in da'as, and in all manner of workmanship; 
And to make machashavot (artistic works), to work in zahav, and in kesef, and in nechoshet, 
And in the cutting of gems, to set them, and in wood carving, to make every melechet machshevet (work of art). 
And He hath given him the ability to teach, both he, and Oholiav ben Achisamach, of the tribe of Dan. 
Them hath He filled with chochmat lev, to do all manner of artistic work, of the carver, and of the weaver of artistic design work, and of the embroiderer, in turquoise, and in purple, in scarlet wool, and in fine linen, and of the weaver, even of them that do artistic work, and of those that make artistic designs. 
