YESHAYAH.
Chapter 55.
Come, kol tzameh (all ye who are thirsty), come ye to the mayim and he that hath no kesef; come ye, buy, and eat; yes, come, buy yayin and cholov without kesef and without mekhir (price, cost). 
Why do ye spend kesef for that which is not lechem? And your labor for that which satisfieth not? Pay heed diligently unto Me, and eat ye that which is tov, and let your nefesh delight itself in deshen (the best food, the fat of the land). 
Incline your ozen, and come unto Me; hear, and your nefesh shall live; and I will make with you a Brit Olam, even the chasdei Dovid hane'emanim. 
See, I have given him for an ed l'ummim (witness to the Nations), a Nagid and Metzavveh (commander) for the Nations. 
Behold, thou shalt summon a Goy (People) that thou knowest not, and Goy that knew not thee shall run unto thee l'ma'an (for the sake of)Hashem Eloheicha and for Kadosh Yisroel; for He hath glorified thee. 
Seek ye Hashem while He may be found, call ye upon Him while He is karov (near); 
Let the rasha forsake his derech, and the ish aven his machshevot; and let him return unto Hashem, and He will have rachamim upon him; and to Eloheinu, for He will abundantly pardon. 
For My machshevot are not your machshevot, neither are the darkhei (ways) of you the darkhei of Me, saith Hashem. 
For as Shomayim is higher than ha'aretz, so are the darkhei of Me higher than the darkhei of you, and My machshevot than your machshevot. 
For as the geshem cometh down, and the sheleg (snow) from Shomayim, and returneth not to there, but watereth ha'aretz, and maketh it yield forth v'hitzmicha (and sprout, spring up; Tzemach), that it may give zera to the zore'a (sower), and lechem to the eater; 
So shall My Davar (the Word of Hashem) be that goeth forth out of My mouth; He shall not return unto Me reikam (empty, void) but He shall do that which I please, and He shall accomplish the purpose whereto I sent Him. 
For ye shall go out with simcha, and be led back with shalom; the harim and the geva'ot (hills) shall break forth into singing before you, and kol atzei hasadeh shall clap their hands. 
Instead of the thornbush shall come up the cypress, and instead of the sirpad (nettle, prickly herb) shall come up the myrtle; and it shall be to Hashem for a Shem, for an ot olam lo yikaret (everlasting sign that shall not be cut off). 
