LUKAS.
Chapter 23.
And the whole multitude of them got up and led Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach before Pilate. 
And they began to accuse him saying, This one we found misleading our nation and making it asur to pay taxes to Caesar and calling himself Moshiach and that he is to be a Melech. 
And Pilate cross-examined him, saying, Are you the Melech HaYehudim? And in reply, he said to him, You say so? 
And Pilate said to the Rashei Hakohanim and the multitudes, I find no ashmah (guilt) in this man. 
But they were insisting, saying, He incites the people, from where he began with his torah (teaching), throughout all of Yehudah, from the Galil even to this place. 
And when Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was a Gelili (an inhabitant of the Galil). 
And having learned that he is under the jurisdiction of Herod, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Yerushalayim during those days. 
And Herod, having laid eyes on Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach, had great simcha. For he was for a long time wanting to see him, because he keeps hearing things about him and was hoping to watch some ot (miraculous sign) being performed by him. 
And Herod was questioning him with many words, but he answered him nothing. 
And the Rashei Hakohenim and the Sofrim had stood by vehemently accusing Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And having treated him with contempt, Herod with his chaiyalim also ridiculed him, having clothed him in an elegant royal robe. So they thus sent back him to Pilate. 
And Herod and Pilate became fast friends with one another on that very day, for they were previously at enmity toward each other. 
And Pilate, when he had assembled the Rashei Hakohanim and the manhigim and the people, 
Said to them, You brought to me this man causing the people to rise up in mered (revolt), and, hinei, I have cross-examined him before you and I found nothing in this man of the crime of which you make accusations against him. 
And neither did Herod, for he sent him back to us, and, hinei, nothing worthy of mishpat mavet has been done by him. 
Therefore, having disciplined him, I will release him.  
Now he was obliged to release to them one at the Chag (Festival). 
But they cried out with one kol, saying, Away with this one! And release to us Bar-Abba! 
(Bar-Abba was a man who was thrown into the beis hasohar, because of some insurrection which occurred in HaIr as well as a retzach.) 
And again Pilate addressed them, wishing to release Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach. 
But they were crying out saying, Let him be talui al HaEtz! Let him be hanged on HaEtz! 
And a paam shlishit (third time), Pilate said to them, But what raah did this one do? No crime worthy of mavet did I find in him. Therefore, having disciplined him, I will release him. 
But they insisted with a kol gadol demanding him to be hanged on HaEtz and their voices were roiv (the larger portion) prevailing. 
And Pilate decided that their demand be accomplished. 
And Pilate released the one they were requesting, the one who had been thrown into the beis hasohar on account of an insurrection and retzach, but Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach he delivered over to their ratzon. 
And as they led him away, having seized a certain Shim'on, a Cyrenian, coming in from the country, they put upon him Moshiachʼs Etz to carry, following Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach. 
And a great multitude of HaAm were following him and nashim, who were acting as avelim, lamenting for him. 
And having turned to them, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said, Benot HaYerushalayim (Daughters of Yerushalayim), stop weeping for me; weep for yourselves and for your yeladim, 
Because, hinei, yamim are coming in which they will say, Ashrey are the barren and the wombs which did not bear and the breasts which did not nurse. 
Then they will begin to say to the mountain, Fall on us! And to the hills, Bury us. 
Because if while an etz (tree) is green they do these things, what may happen when it is dry? 
And two POSHA'IM(criminals, resha'im) were also being led away with Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach to be executed. 
And when they came upon the place being called The Skull, there they hanged each on his etz, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and the POSHA'IM (criminals), one on the right, and one on the left. 
But Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach was saying, Abba, grant selicha to them, for they have no daas of what they are doing. And dividing up his garments, VAPPILU GORAL (they cast lots). 
And HaAm had stood watching. And the manhigim were mocking him also, saying, Others he saved, let him save himself, if this one is the Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach of Hashem, the Bechir Hashem. 
And the chaiyalim also ridiculed him as they approached, offering CHOMETZ(wine vinegar) to him, 
and saying, If you are HaMelech HaYehudim, save yourself. 
And there was also an inscription over him, this is hamelech hayehudim. 
And one of the POSHA'IM (criminals) having been hanged with him was speaking Chillul Hashem gadfanut against him, saying, Are you not the Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach? 
Save yourself and us. And in reply the other, rebuking him, said, Do you not have yirat Shomayim? For you are under the same gezar din (verdict) of harshaah (condemnation as guilty). 
And this is a just gezar din against us, for we deserve what we are getting for our ma'asim (deeds). But this one did nothing rah. 
And he was saying, Adoni, remember me when you come into your Malchut. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Omein, I say to you, hayom (today) you will be with me in Gan Eden. 
It was already the sixth hour and choshech was over the whole land until the ninth hour. 
The shemesh being obscured; and the Parochet in the Beis Hamikdash was torn in two. 
And having cried out with a kol gadol, he said, Abba, BYADCHA AFKID RUCHI (into your hands I commit my ruach). And this having said, he breathed out his last. 
And the centurion who saw the thing that happened was saying, Baruch Hashem, surely this man was a Tzaddik. 
And when all the hamon (crowd) that had assembled at this spectacle had observed the things that had happened, they went away beating their chests. 
And all his acquaintances stood at a distance and the nashim, the ones following him from the Galil, observed these things. 
And, hinei, a man by name Yosef being a member of the Sanhedrin, and an ish tov and a tzaddik, 
(This one had not consented to their cheshbon and action) came from Ramatayim, a shtetl of Yehudah. He was waiting expectantly for the Malchut Hashem. 
He approached Pilate, and asked for the gufat Yehoshua. 
And, having taken down geviyyato (his body), he wrapped it in a linen and placed it in a hewn kever (tomb) where not anyone had yet been laid. 
And it was nearly Erev Shabbat, Shabbos was drawing near. 
And following along after, the nashim who had come out of the Galil with him, saw the kever (tomb) and how his NEVELAH(body) was laid. 
And having returned, they prepared spices and ointments. And on Shabbos they rested according to the mitzvah (commandment). 
