YECHEZKEL.
Chapter 12.
The Davar Hashem also came unto me, saying, 
Ben adam, thou dwellest in the midst of a bais hameri (rebellious house) which have eynayim to see, and see not; they have oznayim to hear, and hear not; for they are a bais meri (house of rebellion). 
Therefore, thou ben adam, pack for the Golus thy belongings and go into captivity by day before their eyes; and thou shalt remove from thy makom (place, home) to another makom in their sight; it may be they will consider, though they be bais meri (a rebellious house). 
Then shalt thou bring forth thy gear by day in their sight, as gear for the Golus; and thou shalt go forth at erev in their sight, as they that go forth into the Golus. 
Dig thou through the kir (wall) in their sight, and carry out everything thereby. 
In their sight shalt thou bear it upon thy katef (shoulder), and carry it forth in the twilight; thou shalt cover thy face, that thou see not ha'aretz; for I have set thee for a mofet (sign, symbol, portent) unto Bais Yisroel. 
And I did so as I was commanded. I brought forth my gear by day, as gear for the Golus, and at erev I dug through the kir (wall) with mine yad; I carried it forth in the twilight, and I bore it upon my katef (shoulder) in their sight. 
And in the boker came the Devar Hashem unto me, saying, 
Ben adam, hath not Bais Yisroel, the bais hameri (the rebellious house), said unto thee, What doest thou? 
Say thou unto them, Thus saith Adonoi Hashem; This massa (burden) concerneth the nasi in Yerushalayim, and kol Bais Yisroel that are among them. 
Say, I am your mofet; just as I have done, so shall it be done unto them: they shall be carried away into the Golus and go into captivity. 
And the nasi that is among them shall bear his gear upon his katef (shoulder) in the twilight, and shall go forth; they shall dig through the kir (wall) to carry out thereby; he shall cover his face, that he see not ha'aretz with the ayin (eye). 
My net also will I spread over him, and he shall be caught in My snare; and I will bring him to Bavel to Eretz Kasdim (Chaldeans); yet shall he not see it, though he shall die there. 
And I will scatter toward every ruach (wind) all that are about him to help him, and all his troops; and I will draw out the cherev after them. 
And they shall know that I am Hashem, when I shall scatter them among the Goyim, and disperse them throughout the countries. 
But I will leave a few anashim of them from the cherev, from the ra'av (famine), and from the dever; that they may declare all their to'avot among the Goyim to where they come; and they shall know that I am Hashem. 
Moreover the Devar Hashem came to me, saying, 
Ben adam, eat thy lechem with fearful shaking, and drink thy mayim with trembling and with anxiety; 
And say unto the am ha'aretz: Thus saith Adonoi Hashem regarding the inhabitants of Yerushalayim, and of Admat Yisroel (Land of Israel); they shall eat their lechem with anxiety, and, as desolate, drink their mayim, because her land shall be desolate from all that is therein, because of the chamas of all them that dwell therein. 
And the towns that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and ha'aretz shall be desolate; and ye shall know that I am Hashem. 
And the Devar Hashem came unto me, saying, 
Ben adam, what is that mashal that ye have in Admat Yisroel, saying, The days drag on, and every chazon (vision) faileth to come to anything. 
Tell them therefore, Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: I will make this mashal to cease, and they shall no more use it as a mashal in Yisroel; but say unto them, The days are at hand, even the fulfillment of kol chazon. 
For there shall be no more any chazon shav (vain vision) nor smooth divination within Bais Yisroel. 
For I am Hashem: I will speak, and the davar that I shall speak shall come to pass; it shall be no more delayed; for in your days, O Bais Hameri (O Rebellious House), will I say the Davar (Word), and will fulfill it, saith Adonoi Hashem. 
Again the Devar Hashem came to me, saying. 
Ben adam, hinei, they of Bais Yisroel say, The chazon that he seeth is for yamim rabbim to come, and he prophesieth of the times that are far off. 
Therefore say unto them, Thus saith Adonoi Hashem; There shall none of My Devarim be delayed any more, but the Davar which I have spoken shall be done, saith Adonoi Hashem. 
