SHEMOT.
Chapter 40.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
On the first day of the first month shalt thou set up the Mishkan Ohel Mo'ed. 
And thou shalt place therein the Aron HaEdut, and thou shalt cover so as to screen the Aron with the Parochet. 
And thou shalt bring in the Shulchan, and set in order the things that are to be set in order upon it; and thou shalt bring in the Menorah, and kindle the Nerot thereof. 
And thou shalt place the Mizbe'ach Hazahav L'Ketoret before the Aron HaEdut, and set up the Masach HaPetach LaMishkan. 
And thou shalt set the Mizbe'ach HaOlah before the Petach Mishkan Ohel Mo'ed. 
And thou shalt set the Kiyor between the Ohel Mo'ed and the Mizbe'ach, and shalt place mayim therein. 
And thou shalt set up the khatzer (court) all around, and hang up the Masach Sha'ar Hakhatzer. 
And thou shalt take the Shemen HaMishchah, and anoint the Mishkan, and all that is therein, and shalt set it apart as kodesh, and all the utensils thereof; and it shall be kodesh. 
And thou shalt anoint the Mizbe'ach HaOlah, and all its utensils, and set apart as kodesh the Mizbe'ach: and it shall be Mizbe'ach kodesh kodashim. 
And thou shalt anoint the Kiyor and its Stand, and set it apart as kodesh. 
And thou shalt bring near Aharon and his banim unto the Petach Ohel Mo'ed, and immerse them with mayim. 
And thou shalt dress Aharon with the Bigdei Hakodesh, and anoint him, and set him apart as kodesh; that he may minister unto Me in the kohenʼs office. 
And thou shalt bring near his banim, and dress them with kuttanot: 
And thou shalt anoint them, as thou didst anoint their av, that they may minister unto Me in the kohenʼs office: for their anointing shall surely be for them a kehunat olam throughout their dorot. 
Thus did Moshe; according to all that Hashem commanded him, so did he. 
And it came to pass in the first month in the second year, on the first day of the month, that the Mishkan was erected. 
And Moshe erected the Mishkan, and fastened its sockets, and set up the kerashim thereof, and put in the crossbars thereof, and set up its ammudim. 
And he spread the Ohel over the Mishkan, and put the Mikhseh of the Ohel on it from above; as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And he took and placed HaEdut (The Testimony), into HaAron, and set the carrying poles on the Aron, and put the Kapporet upon the Aron from above; 
And he brought the Aron into the Mishkan, and set up the Parochet HaMasach, and shielded with a covering over the Aron HaEdut; as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And he put the Shulchan in the Ohel Mo'ed, upon the north side of the Mishkan, outside the Parochet. 
And he set the Lechem in order upon it before Hashem; as Hashem had commanded Moshe. 
And he put the Menorah in the Ohel Mo'ed, opposite the Shulchan, on the south side of the Mishkan. 
And he set up the nerot (lamps) before Hashem; as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And he put the Mizbe'ach Hazahav in the Ohel Mo'ed before the Parochet; 
And he burned ketoret spices thereon; as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And he set up the Masach HaPetach LaMishkan (Curtain of the Entrance of the Tabernacle). 
And he put the Mizbe'ach HaOlah at the Petach Mishkan Ohel Mo'ed, and offered upon it the olah (burnt offering) and the minchah; as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And he set the Kiyor between the Ohel Mo'ed and the Mizbe'ach, and put mayim there, to wash withal. 
And Moshe and Aharon and his banim washed their hands and their feet thereat; 
When they went into the Ohel Mo'ed, and when they came near unto the Mizbe'ach, they washed; as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And he erected the khatzer (courtyard) all around the Mishkan and the Mizbe'ach, and set up the Masach Sha'ar HaKhatzer. So Moshe finished the work. 
Then the Anan covered the Ohel Mo'ed, and the Kavod Hashem filled the Mishkan. 
And Moshe was not able to enter into the Ohel Mo'ed, because the Shekinah cloud abode thereon, and the Kavod Hashem filled the Mishkan. 
And when the Anan was taken up from over the Mishkan, the Bnei Yisroel went onward in all their journeys; 
But if the Anan were not taken up, then they journeyed not till the day that it was taken up. 
For the Anan Hashem was upon the Mishkan by day, and Eish was on it by night, in the sight of all the Bais Yisroel, throughout all their journeys.
