MARKOS.
Chapter 16.
And when Shabbos had ended, Miryam of Magdala and Miryam Em of Ya'akov, and Shlomit bought spices in order that they might go and anoint him. 
And at Shachrit on Yom Rishon, the first day of the shavua (week), the shemesh (sun) just coming up, they come to the kever. 
And they were saying to themselves, Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the kever? 
And having looked up they observe that the stone, which was extremely large, had already been rolled aside! 
And having entered into the kever, they saw a young man enrobed in white, sitting on the right side, and they were shocked with astonishment. 
But he says to them, Do not be alarmed. You seek Yehoshua/Yeshua from Natzeret, who has been made talui al HaEtz (being hanged on the Tree). He has been made to stand up alive. He is not here. Hinei the place where they laid him. 
But go tell his talmidim and Kefa that he goes before you into the Galil. There you will see him, just as he told you. 
And having gone out, they fled from the kever, and trembling and amazement seized them. And they told no one anything, for they were afraid. 
And now after Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach stood up alive early on Yom Rishon he appeared rishonah (first) to Miryam of Magdala, from whom he had cast out shiva shedim. 
She went out and announced to the ones who had been with Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach while they were in avelut (mourning) and weeping. 
And those who heard that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach lives and he was seen by her, refused to have emunah. 
And after these things, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach appeared in another form to two of them walking along into the country. 
And those went and reported to the rest, but the rest did not have emunah either. 
But later Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach appeared to the Achad Asar (The Eleven), themselves reclining at tish, and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach reproached them for their lack of emunah and the KESHI(stubbornness, hardness) of their levavot (hearts), because they had not believed those who saw Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach after he had been made to stand up alive. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Go into kol haOlam (all the World), and proclaim the Besuras haGeulah to all HaBriah (the Creation). 
The one having had emunah (faith) and having submitted to a tevilah of teshuva (immersion of repentance) will be delivered in the Yeshu'at Eloheinu (Salvation of our G-d), but the one not having emunah will come under the gezar din (verdict) of harshaah (condemnation as guilty). 
And these otot (signs) will accompany those that have emunah. BiShmi (In my Name) they will cast out shedim (demons); they will speak with leshonot chadashot(new tongues); 
And with their hands they will pick up nechashim(snakes); and, if any deadly poison they drink, it will in no way harm them; upon the cholim (sick people) they will lay their hands and they will bring them refuah. 
And then Adoneinu Yehoshua, after speaking to them, was taken up into Shomayim V'YASHAV LIMIN HASHEM (and sat down at the right hand of Hashem). 
And those having gone forth preached the Hachrazah (Proclamation, Kerygma) everywhere, while Adonoi was working with them, confirming the Besuras HaGeulah through the accompanying otot (signs). Omein.
