MELACHIM BAIS.
Chapter 8.
Then spoke Elishah unto the isha, whose ben he had restored to life, saying, Arise, and go thou and thine bais, and sojourn wheresoever thou canst sojourn; for Hashem hath called for a ra'av (famine); and it shall also come upon ha'aretz sheva shanim. 
And the isha arose, and did according to the davar Ish HaElohim; she went away and her bais, sojourned in the Eretz Pelishtim sheva shanim. 
And it came to pass at the end of the sheva shanim, that the isha returned from Eretz Pelishtim; and she went forth to make appeal unto HaMelech for her bais and for her sadeh. 
And HaMelech talked with Geichazi na'ar Ish HaElohim, saying, Tell me, now, all the gedolot (great things) that Elishah hath done. 
And it came to pass, as he was telling HaMelech how he had restored to life hamet (the dead), that, hinei, the isha, whose ben he had restored to life, cried out her appeal to HaMelech for her bais and for her sadeh. And Geichazi said, Adoni, HaMelech, this is the isha, and this is her ben, whom Elishah restored to life. 
And when HaMelech asked the isha, she told him. So HaMelech appointed unto her a certain saris (official), saying, Restore all that was hers, and all the tevu'ot (increase) of the sadeh since the yom that she left ha'aretz, even until now. 
And Elishah came to Damascus; and Ben-Hadad Melech Aram choleh (was ill), when it was told him, saying, Ish HaElohim has come here. 
And HaMelech said unto Chazael, Take a minchah (a present) in thine yad, and go, meet the Ish HaElohim, and inquire of Hashem through him, saying, Shall I recover of this illness? 
So Chazael went to meet him, and took a minchah (a present) with him, even of every good thing of Damascus, massa (burden, load) of arba'im gamal, and came and stood before him, and said, Binecha Ben-Hadad Melech Aram (Syria) hath sent me to thee, saying, Shall I recover of this illness? 
And Elishah said unto him, Go, say unto him, Thou shalt certainly recover; howbeit Hashem hath showed me that he shall surely die. 
And he fixed his gaze steadfastly, and stared at him until he was ashamed; then the Ish HaElohim wept. 
And Chazael said, Why weepeth, adoni? And he answered, Because I know the ra'ah (evil, harm) that thou wilt do unto the Bnei Yisroel; their strongholds wilt thou with eish set ablaze, and their bochurim wilt thou slay with the cherev, and wilt dash their olelim, and their women with child thou wilt rip open. 
And Chazael said, But what, is thy eved a kelev (dog), that he should do this davar hagadol (great thing)? And Elishah answered, Hashem hath showed me that thou shalt be Melech over Aram (Syria). 
So he departed from Elishah, and came to adonav (his master); who said to him, What said Elishah to thee? And he answered, He told me that thou shouldest surely recover. 
And it came to pass on the next day, that he took hamakhber (the bed-cover), and soaked it in mayim, and spread it on his face, so that he died; and Chazael reigned as Melech in his place. 
And in the fifth year of Yoram Ben Ach'av Melech Yisroel, Yehoshaphat being then Melech Yehudah, Yehoram Ben Yehoshafat Melech Yehudah began to reign as Melech. 
Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign as Melech; and he reigned as Melech shmoneh shanah in Yerushalayim. 
And he walked in the derech malkhei Yisroel, as did the Bais Ach'av; for the Bat Ach'av was his isha; and he did rah (evil) before the eyes of Hashem. 
Yet Hashem would not destroy Yehudah for the sake of Dovid His eved, in accordance with His promise to him to give a Ner (Lamp) for him and his banim kol hayamim. 
In his yamim Edom pasha (rebelled) from under the yad Yehudah, and set a melech over themselves. 
So Yoram went over to Tzair, and all the merkavot with him; and he rose by lailah, and attacked Edom who had him surrounded, and the commanders of the merkavot; and the army fled to their ohalim (tents, homes). 
Yet Edom revolted from under the yad Yehudah unto this day. Then Livnah revolted at the same time. 
And the rest of the acts of Yoram, and all that he did, are they not written in the Sefer Divrei HaYamim L'Malkhei Yehudah? 
And Yoram slept with his avot, and was buried with his avot in Ir Dovid; and Achazyahu bno reigned as Melech in his place. 
In the twelfth year of Yoram Ben Ach'av Melech Yisroel did Achazyahu Ben Yehoram Melech Yehudah begin to reign as Melech. 
Achazyahu was 22 years old when he began to reign as Melech; and he reigned one year in Yerushalayim. And the shem immo was Atalyah Bat Omri Melech Yisroel. 
And he walked in the derech of the Bais Ach'av, and did rah in the eyes of Hashem, as did the Bais Ach'av: for he was choson (son-in-law) of the Bais Ach'av. 
And he went with Yoram Ben Ach'av to the milchamah (war) against Chazael Melech Aram in Ramot Gil'ad; and the Aramim wounded Yoram. 
And Yoram HaMelech returned to recover in Yizre'el of the makkim (wounds) which the Aramim (Syrians) had inflicted on him at Ramah, when he fought against Chazael Melech Aram. And Achazyahu Ben Yehoram Melech Yehudah went down to see Yoram Ben Ach'av in Yizre'el, because he was choleh (ill with his wounds). 
