YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 49.
Concerning Bnei Ammon, thus saith Hashem: Hath Yisroel no banim? Hath he no yoresh (heir)? Why then doth Malcam (Molech) inherit Gad, and his people dwell in his towns? 
Therefore, hinei, the days come, saith Hashem, that I will cause an alarm of milchamah to be heard in Rabbah of Bnei Ammon; and it shall become a desolate tel (mound), and her banot shall be burned with eish: then shall Yisroel dispossess his dispossessors, 
Wail, O Cheshbon, for Ai is plundered: cry out, ye banot of Rabbah, gird you with sackcloth; lament, and rush to and fro inside the walls; for Malcam (Molech) shall go into Golus, and his kohanim and his sarim together. 
Why gloriest thou in the valleys, thy flowing emek (valley), O Bat hashovevah (backsliding Daughter)? That trusted in her otzarot, saying: Who shall come unto Me? 
Hineni, I will bring a pachad (terror) upon thee, saith Adonoi Hashem Tzva'os, from all those that be around thee; and ye shall be driven out, every ish before him; and none shall gather up the fugitive. 
And afterward I will bring back the captivity of the Bnei Ammon, saith Hashem. 
Concerning Edom, thus saith Hashem Tzva'os; Is chochmah no more in Teman? Is etzah perished from the prudent? Is their chochmah vanished? 
Flee ye, turn back, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Dedan; for I will bring the calamity of Esav upon him, the time that I will visit to punish him. 
If grape gatherers come to thee, would they not leave some grape gleanings? If ganavim balailah (thieves by night), they will destroy only till they have enough. 
But I have stripped Esav bare, I have uncovered his hiding places, and he shall not be able to hide himself; his zera are plundered, and his brethren and his shchenim (neighbors), and he is no more. 
Leave thy yatomim (fatherless, orphans), I will preserve them alive; and let thy almanot trust in Me. 
For thus saith Hashem: Hinei, they whose mishpat was not to drink of the Kos have assuredly drunken; and art thou he that shall altogether go unpunished? Thou shalt not go unpunished, but thou shalt surely drink of it. 
For I have sworn by Myself, saith Hashem, that Botzrah shall become a desolation, a cherpah, a reproach, and a kelalah; and all the towns thereof shall be perpetual ruins. 
I have heard a message from Hashem, and an envoy is sent unto the Goyim, saying: Gather ye together, and come against her, and rise up to the milchamah. 
For, hinei, I will make thee katon among the Goyim, and despised among adam. 
Thy fierceness hath deceived thee, and the zadon (pride, malice) of thine lev, O thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rock, that holdest the height of the hill; though thou shouldest make thy ken (nest) as high as the nesher, I will bring thee down from there, 
Also Edom shall be a horror; every one that goeth by it shall be appalled, and shall hiss at all the makkot (wounds, blows) thereof. 
As in the overthrow of Sodom and Amora (Gomorrah) and the neighboring towns thereof, saith Hashem, no ish shall abide there, neither shall a ben adam dwell in it. 
Hinei, he shall come up like an aryeh from the thicket of the Yarden against the rich pastureland; but I will suddenly make him run away from her; and who is Bachur (Chosen one), that I may appoint over her? Mi khamoni (who is like Me)? And who will arraign Me? And who is that Ro'eh (shepherd) that will stand before Me? 
Therefore hear the etzat Hashem, that He hath planned against Edom; and His purposes, that He hath purposed against the inhabitants of Teman; Surely the young ones of the tzon shall drag them away; surely He shall make their habitation desolate because of them. 
Ha'aretz shakes at the noise of their fall, at the cry the noise thereof was heard in Yam Suf. 
Hinei, He shall come up and fly like the nesher, and spread His wings over Botzrah; and in that day shall the lev of the Gibborim of Edom be as the lev of an isha in her birth pangs. 
Concerning Damascus: Chamat is shamed, and Arpad, for they have heard bad news; they are fainthearted; there is anxiety on the yam (sea); it cannot be quiet. 
Damascus has grown feeble, and turneth herself to flee, and fear hath gripped her; anguish and chavalim (pains) have taken her, as a woman in travail. 
How is it that the Ir Tehillah is not deserted, the town of My joy! 
Therefore her bochurim shall fall in her streets, and all the anshei milchamah shall be destroyed in that day, 
And I will kindle an eish in the chomat Damascus, and it shall consume the fortresses of Ben-hadad. 
Concerning Kedar, and concerning the mamlechot of Chatzor, which Nevukhadretzar Melech Bavel shall strike: Thus saith Hashem: Arise ye, go up to Kedar, and plunder the Bnei Kedem. 
Their ohalim and their tzon shall they take away; they shall carry off for themselves their tent curtains, and all their kelim (vessels), their gemalim (camels); and they shall cry unto them: Magor (terror, fear) is on every side. 
Flee, get you far off, dwell in the depths, O ye inhabitants of Chatzor, saith Hashem; for Nevukhadretzar Melech Bavel hath plotted an etzah (plot, plan, counsel) against you, and hath conceived a plan against you. 
Arise, get you up unto the nation which is at ease, that dwelleth securely, saith Hashem, which have neither gates nor bars, which dwell alone. 
And their gemalim (camels) shall be for plunder, and the multitude of their mikneh (herds) a plunder; and I will scatter unto kol ruach (all winds) them that cut off the hair corners; and I will bring their calamity from all sides thereof, 
And Chatzor shall be a ma'on (dwelling) for jackals, and a desolation ad olam (forever); there shall no ish abide there, nor any ben adam dwell in it. 
The Devar Hashem that came to Yirmeyah HaNavi against Eilam in the beginning of the reign of Tzidkiyah Melech Yehudah, saying: 
Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os; Hineni: I will break the keshet (bow, power) of Eilam, the mainstay of their might. 
And upon Eilam will I bring the arba ruchot (four winds) from the four quarters of Shomayim, and will scatter them toward all those ruchot; and there shall be no nation where the outcasts of Eilam shall not go. 
For I will cause Eilam to be dismayed before their oyevim, and before them that seek their nefesh; and I will bring ra'ah upon them, even My charon af, saith Hashem; and I will send the cherev after them, till I have consumed them: 
And I will set My Kisse in Eilam, and will destroy from there melech and the sarim, saith Hashem. 
Yet it shall come to pass in the acharit hayamim, that I will bring back the captives of Eilam, saith Hashem. 
