Mishle.
Chapter 1.
Mishlei Sh'lomo Ben Dovid, Melech Yisroel; 
To have da'as of chochmah and musar (discipline); to understand the words of binah; 
To receive the musar of those with seichel, tzedek and mishpat, and meisharim (equity, uprightness); 
To give subtlety to the simple, to the na'ar, da'as and discretion. 
A chacham (wise person) will hear, and will increase learning, and a man of understanding shall acquire wise counsel: 
To understand a mashal (proverb), and the melitzah (enigma); the divrei chachamim, and their chidot (riddles). 
The Yirat Hashem is the reshit da'as, but fools despise chochmah and musar. 
Beni (my son), hear the musar Avicha, and forsake not the Torat Immecha. 
For they shall be a garland of chen unto thy rosh, and a chain about thy neck. 
Beni (my son), if chatt'aim (sinners) entice thee, consent thou not. 
If they say, Come with us, let us lie in wait for dahm, let us lurk secretly for the naki (innocent, harmless) chinnom (without cause); 
Let us swallow them up chayyim (alive) like She'ol; and whole, as those that go down into the bor (pit); 
We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill bateinu (our houses) with plunder; 
Throw in thy goral (lot) among us; let all of us have kis echad (one pouch, purse). 
Beni (my son), walk not thou in the derech with them; refrain thy regel from their path; 
For their raglayim run to rah, and make haste for shefach dahm (shedding of blood). 
Surely in vain the reshet (net) is spread in the eyes of kol ba'al kanaf (all the birds); 
And they lie in wait for their own dahm; they lurk secretly for their own nafshot. 
So are the ways of every one that is greedy for betza (ill-gotten gain); which taketh away the nefesh of the be'alim (owners) thereof. 
Chochmot crieth out in the street; she lifts up her voice in the rechovot (city squares); 
She crieth out in the chief place of concourse, in the openings of the she'arim (gates); in the Ir (city) she uttereth her words, saying, 
Ad mosai, ye simple ones, will ye love being simpletons? And the scoffers delight in their mockery, and kesilim (fools) hate da'as? 
Turn you at my tokhechah (reproof); hinei, I will pour out my ruach unto you, I will make known my devarim unto you. 
Because I have called, and ye refused, I have stretched out my yad, and no man regarded; 
But ye have disdained all my etza (counsel), and would have none of my tokhechah (reproof); 
I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your pachad (terror) cometh; 
When your pachad (terror) cometh like a storm, and your calamity cometh like a whirlwind; when tzarah (distress) and oppression cometh upon you. 
Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall look for me diligently, but they shall not find me; 
For that they hated da'as, and did not choose the Yirat Hashem; 
They would have none of my etza (counsel); they despised all my tokhechah (reproof). 
Therefore shall they eat of the p'ri (fruit) of their own derech, and be filled with their own mo'atzot (schemes, devices). 
For the waywardness of the simple shall slay them, and the complacent contentment of kesilim (fools) shall destroy them. 
But the one who payeth heed unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be secure from pachad ra'ah (terror of evil). 
