YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 20.
Now Pashchur Ben Immer the kohen, who was also Pakid Nagid in the Beis Hashem, heard that Yirmeyah prophesied these things. 
Then Pashchur struck Yirmeyah HaNavi, and put him in the stocks that were in the Upper Gate of Binyamin, which was at the Beis Hashem. 
And it came to pass on the next day, that Pashchur brought forth Yirmeyah out of the stocks. Then said Yirmeyah unto him, Hashem hath not called thy shem Pashchur, but Magor Missaviv (Terror on Every Side). 
For thus saith Hashem, Hineni, I will make thee a magor (terror) to thyself, and to all thy friends; and they shall fall by the cherev of their oyevim, and thine eynayim shall behold it; and I will give kol Yehudah into the yad Melech Bavel, and he shall carry them captive into Bavel, and shall slay them with the cherev. 
Moreover, I will deliver all the wealth of this city, and all the produce thereof, and all the precious things thereof, and all the otzarot of the melachim of Yehudah will I give into the yad of their oyevim, which shall plunder them, and seize them, and carry them to Bavel. 
And thou, Pashchur, and all that dwell in thine bais shall go into the Golus captivity: and thou shalt come to Bavel, and there thou shalt die, and shalt be buried there, thou, and all thy friends, to whom thou hast prophesied sheker. 
Hashem, Thou hast induced me, and I was induced; Thou art stronger than I, and hast prevailed; I am a laughingstock all day long, every one mocketh me. 
For since I spoke, I cried out, I cried chamas and destruction; because the Devar Hashem was made a cherpah (reproach) unto me, and a derision, all day long. 
Then I said: I will not make mention of Him, nor speak any more in Shmo. But His word was in Mine lev as a burning eish shut up in my atzmot, and I was weary of holding back, and I could not. 
For I heard the slander of many, Magor (terror) on every side. Report, say they, letʼs report him. Kol enosh shelomi watched for my stumbling, saying: Perhaps he will be enticed, and we shall prevail against him, and we shall take our revenge on him. 
But Hashem is with me as a Gibbor Aritz (Mighty Warrior): therefore my persecutors shall stumble, and they shall not prevail; they shall be greatly ashamed, for they shall not succeed; their kelimat olam (everlasting dishonor) shall never be forgotten. 
But, Hashem Tzva'os, that tests the tzaddik, and seest the kelayot and the lev, let me see Thy vengeance on them; for unto Thee have I pled my cause. 
Sing unto Hashem, hallelu Hashem; for He hath saved the nefesh of the evyon (poor) from the yad of evildoers. 
Arur (cursed) be the day wherein I was born; let not the day wherein immi bore me yehi baruch (be blessed). 
Arur (cursed) be the ish who brought news to avi, saying: A ben zachar (male child) is born unto thee; making him very glad. 
And let that ish be as the towns which Hashem overthrew, and relented not; and let him hear the wailing in the boker, and the teru'ah (battle cry) at noontide; 
Because he slaughtered me not from the womb; or that immi might have been my kever, and olam (forever) her womb enlarged. 
Why came I forth out of the womb to see amal (trouble, toil) and sorrow, that my days should be consumed with shame? 
