YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 11.
The Davar that came to Yirmeyah from Hashem saying: 
Hear ye the Divrei HaBrit Hazot, and speak unto the Ish Yehudah, and to the inhabitants of Yerushalayim; 
And say thou unto them, Thus saith Hashem Elohei Yisroel; Arur (cursed) be the ish that obeyeth not the Divrei HaBrit Hazot, 
Which I commanded Avoteichem in the day that I brought them forth out from Eretz Mitzrayim, from the kur habarzel (the furnace of iron), saying, Obey My voice, and do all which I command you; so shall ye be My people, and I will be your Elohim; 
That I may perform the shevuah (oath) which I have sworn unto Avoteichem to give them an Eretz zavat cholov udevash as it is this day. Then answered I, and said, Omein, Hashem. 
Then Hashem said unto me, Proclaim all these Devarim in the towns of Yehudah, and in the streets of Yerushalayim, saying, Hear ye the Divrei HaBrit Hazot, and do them. 
For I earnestly warned Avoteichem in the day that I brought them up out of Eretz Mitzrayim, even unto this day, rising early and warning, saying, Obey My voice. 
Yet they obeyed not, nor inclined their ozen (ear), but walked every one in the sherirut (stubbornness) of their lev harah; therefore I brought upon them all the Divrei HaBrit Hazot, which I commanded them to do; but they did them not. 
And Hashem said unto me: A kesher (conspiracy) is found among the Ish Yehudah, and among the inhabitants of Yerushalayim. 
They are turned back to the avonot Avotam HaRishonim, which refused to hear My words; and they went after elohim acherim to serve them; Bais Yisroel and Bais Yehudah have broken My Brit which I cut with Avotam. 
Therefore thus saith Hashem, Look! I will bring ra'ah (evil, disaster) upon them, which they shall not be able to escape; and though they shall cry out unto Me, I will not pay heed unto them. 
Then shall the towns of Yehudah and inhabitants of Yerushalayim go, and cry out unto the elohim unto whom they offer ketoret; but they shall not save them at all in the time of their ra'ah (disaster). 
For as many as the mispar (number) of thy towns were thy elohim, O Yehudah; and according to the mispar (number) of the streets of Yerushalayim have ye set up mizbechot to that boshet (shameful ), even mizbechot to burn ketoret unto Ba'al. 
Therefore pray not thou for HaAm Hazot, neither lift up a rinnah (entreaty) or tefillah on their behalf; for I will not hear them in the time that they cry unto Me for their ra'ah (disaster). 
What hath My yadid (beloved) to do in Mine Bais, seeing she hath with rabbim (many) wrought clever ritual schemes — can basar kodesh turn away from thee thy disaster, that thou can rejoice? 
Hashem called thy shem, A green zayit (olive tree), yafeh, and of goodly pri (fruit); with the noise of a great tumult He hath kindled eish upon it, and the branches of it are broken. 
For Hashem Tzva'os, that planted thee, hath pronounced ra'ah against thee, for the evil of Bais Yisroel and of Bais Yehudah, which they have done against themselves to provoke Me to anger in offering ketoret (incense) unto Ba'al. 
And Hashem hath given me da'as (knowledge) of it, and I know it; then Thou opened my eyes to their deeds. 
But I was like an innocent keves (lamb) that is brought to the slaughter; and I knew not that they had devised machashavot (plots) against me, saying: Let us destroy the etz (tree) with the fruit thereof, and let us cut him off from Eretz Chayyim, that shmo may be no more remembered. 
But, Hashem Tzva'os, Shofet Tzedek, that testeth the kelayot (kidneys) and the lev, let me see Thy vengeance on them; for unto Thee have I committed my cause. 
Therefore thus saith Hashem of the anshei Anatot, that seek thy life, saying, Prophesy not B'Shem Hashem, that thou die not by our yad; 
Therefore thus saith Hashem Tzva'os, Look! I will punish them; the bochurim shall die by the cherev; their banim and their banot shall die by ra'av (famine); 
And there shall be no she'erit (remnant) of them; for I will bring ra'ah (evil) upon the Anshei Anatot, even the year of their visitation. 
