BERESHIS.
Chapter 41.
And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed a chalom: and, hinei, he stood by haye'or (the River, i.e., the Nile). 
And, hinei, there came up out of haye'or (the River, i.e., the Nile) seven cows, fine in appearance and fat in basar; and they grazed on the riverbank. 
And, hinei, seven other cows came up after them out of the Nile, ra'ot mareh (ugly in appearance) and dakot basar (gaunt ones in flesh, lean-fleshed); and stood by the other cows upon the bank of the Nile. 
And the cows that were ra'ot hamareh and that were dakot habasar did devour the seven cows that were fine in appearance and fat. Then Pharaoh awoke. 
And he slept and dreamed a chalom the second time; and, hinei, sheva heads of grain came up upon one stalk, beri'ot (fat ones) and tovot. 
And, hinei, seven thin heads of grain scorched by the east wind tzomechot (sprung up) after them. 
And the seven thin heads of grain devoured the seven fat and mele'ot (full) heads of grain. And Pharaoh awoke; and, hinei, it was a chalom! 
And it came to pass in the boker that his ruach was troubled; and he sent and called for all the chartummei Mitzrayim (magicians of Egypt), and all the chachamim thereof; and Pharaoh told them his chalom; but there was no poter (interpreter) for Pharaoh. 
Then the sar hamashkim spoke unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faults this day. 
Pharaoh was in wrath with his avadim, and put me b'mishmar (in custody) in the bais sar hatabbachim, both me and the sar ha'ofim; 
And we dreamed a chalom in the same lailah, I and he; and each chalom we dreamed had its own pitron (interpretation). 
And there was there with us a na'ar Ivri, eved to the sar hatabbachim; and we told him, and he interpreted to us chalomoteinu (our dreams); to each according to his chalom he did interpret. 
And it was, just as he interpreted to us, so it came to pass; me he restored unto mine ken (post), and him he hanged. 
Then Pharaoh sent and summoned Yosef, and they brought him hastily out of the bor (dungeon); and he shaved, and changed his clothes, and came in unto Pharaoh. 
And Pharaoh said unto Yosef, I have dreamed a chalom, and there is no poter (interpreter) for it; and I have heard it said of thee, that thou canst understand a chalom to interpret it. 
And Yosef answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me; Elohim shall give Pharaoh an answer of shalom. 
And Pharaoh said unto Yosef, In my chalom, hineni, I stood upon the bank of the Nile; 
And, hinei, there came up out of the Nile seven cows beri'ot basar (fat in body) and sleek of form; and they grazed by the riverbank. 
And, hinei, seven other cows came up after them, dalot (poor, scrawny, thin) and ra'ot to'ar me'od (very ugly in appearance) and lean-fleshed, such as I never saw in kol Eretz Mitzrayim, unacceptably bad; 
And the lean and the ra'ot cows did eat up the first seven fat cows; 
And when they had eaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; but they were still rah in appearance, as at the beginning. So I awoke. 
And I saw in my chalom, and, hinei, seven heads of grain came up on one stalk, mele'ot (full) and tovot (good); 
And, hinei, seven heads of grain, withered, thin, and scorched with the east wind, tzomechot (sprung up) after them; 
And the thin heads of grain devoured the seven tov heads of grain; and I told this unto the chartummim (magicians); but there was none that could explain it to me. 
And Yosef said unto Pharaoh, The chalom of Pharaoh is echad: HaElohim hath revealed to Pharaoh what He is about to do. 
The seven good cows are seven shanim; and the seven good heads of grain are seven shanim. The chalom is echad. 
And the seven lean and ugly cows that came up after them are sheva shanim; and the seven empty heads of grain scorched by the east wind are sheva shnei ra'av (seven years of famine). 
This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh; What HaElohim is about to do He showeth unto Pharaoh. 
Hinei, there come sheva shanim of sava gadol (great fullness, plenty, abundance) throughout kol Eretz Mitzrayim. 
And there shall arise after them sheva shnei ra'av (seven years of famine) and kol hasava (all abundance) shall be forgotten in Eretz Mitzrayim; and the ra'av (famine) shall consume the land; 
And the sava shall not be known in the land by reason of that ra'av (famine) following; for it shall be kaved me'od (very grievous). 
And for that the chalom was doubled unto Pharaoh; it is because the thing is decidedly established by HaElohim, and HaElohim will shortly bring it to pass. 
Now therefore let Pharaoh select an ish navon and chochom (a man discerning and wise) and set him over Eretz Mitzrayim. 
Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint pekidim (officers, overseers, commissioners) over the land, and take up the fifth part of the harvest of Eretz Mitzrayim in the sheva shnei hasava. 
And let them gather kol ochel of those shanim hatovot that come, and store up grain under the yad Pharaoh, and let them be shomer over ochel in the cities. 
And that ochel shall be for reserves for the land against the sheva shnei hara'av, which shall be in Eretz Mitzrayim; that the land perish not through the ra'av. 
And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his avadim. 
And Pharaoh said unto his avadim, Can we find such an ish as this is, an ish in whom is the Ruach Elohim? 
And Pharaoh said unto Yosef, Forasmuch as Elohim hath showed thee all this, there is none so navon (discerning) and chochom (wise) as thou art; 
Thou shalt be over my bais (palace), and according unto thy mouth shall all my people order themselves; only with respect to the kisse will I be greater than thou. 
And Pharaoh said unto Yosef, See, I have set thee over kol Eretz Mitzrayim. 
And Pharaoh took off his taba'at (signet ring) from his yad, and put it upon yad Yosef, and arrayed him in garments of fine linen, and put a chain of zahav around his neck; 
And he made him to ride in the second merkavah which he had; and they cried before him, Avrech! And he put him over kol Eretz Mitzrayim. 
And Pharaoh said unto Yosef, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his yad or regel in kol Eretz Mitzrayim. 
And Pharaoh called shem Yosef Tzaphnat Pa'neach; and he gave him as isha Asenat Bat Poti Phera kohen of On. And Yosef went out over all Eretz Mitzrayim. 
And Yosef was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh Melech Mitzrayim. And Yosef went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout kol Eretz Mitzrayim. 
And in the sheva shnei hasava the land brought forth by handfuls. 
And he gathered up kol ochel of the sheva shanim, which were in Eretz Mitzrayim, and laid up the ochel in the cities; the ochel of the sadeh, which surrounded every city, laid he up in the same. 
And Yosef gathered grain as the chol (sand) of the yam, very much, until he stopped counting; for it was without mispar (number). 
And unto Yosef were born two banim before the shnat ra'av came, which Asenat Bat Poti Phera kohen of On bore unto him. 
And Yosef called the shem of the bechor Menasheh: For Elohim, said he nashani, (hath made me forget) all my amal, and kol bais Avi. 
And the shem of the second called he Ephrayim: For Elohim hifrani (hath caused me to be fruitful) in the eretz of my oni (suffering). 
And the sheva shnei hasava that was in Eretz Mitzrayim were ended. 
And the sheva shnei hara'av began to come, just as Yosef had said; and the ra'av was in all lands; but in kol Eretz Mitzrayim there was lechem. 
And when kol Eretz Mitzrayim was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for lechem; and Pharaoh said unto kol Mitzrayim, Go unto Yosef; what he saith to you, do. 
And the ra'av (famine) was over kol pnei ha'aretz; and Yosef opened all that was in them, and sold unto the Mitzrayim; and the ra'av (famine) became severe in Eretz Mitzrayim. 
And kol HaAretz (all the world) came into Mitzrayim to Yosef to buy grain; because that the ra'av (famine) was so chazak in kol HaAretz. 
