VAYIKRA.
Chapter 19.
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Speak unto kol Adat Bnei Yisroel, and say unto them, Ye shall be kedoshim (holy ones): for I Hashem Eloheichem am kadosh. 
Ye shall fear every man his em, and his av, and be shomer over My Shabbatot: I am Hashem Eloheichem. 
Turn ye not unto elilim, nor make to yourselves elohei massekhah (cast metal g-ds); I am Hashem Eloheichem. 
And if ye offer a zevach shelamim unto Hashem, ye shall offer it for your acceptance. 
It shall be eaten the same day ye offer it, and on the next day; and what remains until the yom hashelishi, it shall be burned in the eish. 
And if it be eaten at all on the yom hashelishi, it is piggul (unclean sacrificial flesh); it shall not be accepted. 
Therefore every one that eateth it shall bear his avon, because he hath desecrated as chillul the set-apart-as-kodesh thing of Hashem: and that nefesh shall be cut off from among his people. 
And when ye reap the katzir of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy sadeh, neither shalt thou gather the gleanings of thy katzir. 
And thou shalt not glean thy kerem (vineyard), neither shalt thou gather every grape of thy kerem; thou shalt leave them for the oni (poor) and ger (stranger); I am Hashem Eloheichem. 
Ye shall not steal, neither deal falsely, neither speak sheker (falsehood, deception, lie) to another. 
And ye shall not swear by My Shem lasheker (falsely), neither shalt thou commit Chillul ha-shem Eloheicha; I am Hashem. 
Thou shalt not defraud thy re'a (neighbor), neither rob him; the wages of him that is a sakhir (hired man) shall not abide with thee ad boker (until morning). 
Thou shalt not curse the cheresh (deaf), nor put a michshol (stumbling block) before the ivver (blind), but shalt fear Eloheicha: I am Hashem. 
Ye shall do no avel bamishpat (perversion of justice); thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor favor the person of the gadol; but in tzedek shalt thou judge thy neighbor. 
Thou shalt not go up and down as a rakhil (talebearer, slanderer) among thy people; neither shalt thou stand aside while thy neighborʼs dahm is shed; I am Hashem. 
Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine lev; thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbor, and not bear chet because of him. 
Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the bnei ammecha (children of thy people), v'ahavta l'reacha kamocha (but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself): I am Hashem. 
Ye shall be shomer over My chukkot. Thou shalt not mate different kinds of animals; thou shalt not sow thy sadeh with mingled zera; neither shall a garment with shaatnez (mixed fibers) come upon thee. 
And whosoever lieth carnally with an isha, that is a shifcha betrothed to a husband, and not at all redeemed, nor chufshah (freedom) given her; she shall be scourged; they shall not be put to death, because she has not been chuppashah (freed). 
And he shall bring his asham (trespass offering, guilt offering) unto Hashem, unto the entrance of the Ohel Mo'ed, even a ram of asham. 
And the kohen shall make kapporah for him with the ram of the asham before Hashem for his chattat which he hath sinned; and the chattat which he hath sinned shall be forgiven him. 
And when ye shall come into ha'aretz, and shall have planted all manner of food trees, then ye shall treat the fruit thereof as forbidden; shalosh shanim shall it be as forbidden unto you; it shall not be eaten of. 
But in the shanah harev'i'it all the fruit thereof shall be kodesh to praise Hashem withal. 
And in the shanah hachamishit shall ye eat of the fruit thereof, that it may yield unto you the increase thereof: I am Hashem Eloheichem. 
Ye shall not eat any thing with the dahm; neither shall ye practice divination, nor practice sorcery. 
Ye shall not cut the edge of your scalp, neither shalt thou mar the corners of thy beard. 
Ye shall not make any cuttings in your basar for the dead, nor tattoo any marks upon you: I am Hashem. 
Do not prostitute thy bat, to cause her to be a harlot; lest ha'aretz fall to whoredom, and ha'aretz become full of depravity. 
Ye shall be shomer over My Shabbatot, and reverence My Mikdash; I am Hashem. 
Regard not them that have familiar spirits, neither seek after Ovos (Mediums) and Yidonim (Spiritists), to be defiled by them: I am Hashem Eloheichem. 
Thou shalt rise up before the old, and honor the face of the zaken, and fear Eloheicha: I am Hashem. 
And if a ger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not mistreat him. 
But the ger that dwelleth with you shall be unto you as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for ye were gerim in Eretz Mitzrayim: I am Hashem Eloheichem. 
Ye shall do no unrighteousness in scales, in weights, and dry measures. 
Tzedek scales, tzedek weights, a tzedek ephah, and a tzedek hin, shall ye have: I am Hashem Eloheichem, which brought you out of Eretz Mitzrayim. 
Therefore shall ye be shomer (on guard to keep) over all My chukkot (statutes), and all My mishpatim (judgments), and do them: I am Hashem. 
