DIVREY HAYAMIM ALEF.
Chapter 9.
So kol Yisroel were reckoned by genealogies; and, hinei, they were recorded and written down in the sefer of the melachim of Yisroel and Yehudah, who were carried away into the Golus to Bavel for their unfaithfulness. 
Now the first inhabitants that dwelt in their possessions in their towns were Yisroel, the kohanim, Levi'im, and the Netinim. 
And in Yerushalayim dwelt of the Bnei Yehudah, and of the Bnei Binyamin, and of the Bnei Ephrayim, and Menasheh: 
Utai Ben Ammihud Ben Omri Ben Imri Ben Banimin, of the Bnei Peretz Ben Yehudah. 
And of the Shiloni: Asayah the bechor, and his banim. 
The Bnei Zerach: Yeu'el and their brethren, 690. 
And of the Bnei Binyamin: Sallu Ben Meshullam Ben Hodavyah Ben Hasenuah, 
And Yivneyah Ben Yerocham, and Elah Ben Uzzi Ben Mikhri and Meshullam Ben Shephatyah Ben Re'uel Ben Yivniyah; 
And their brethren, according to their toldot, 956. All these anashim were rashei avot in the bais avoteihem. 
And of the kohanim; Yedayah, and Yehoyariv, and Yachin, 
And Azaryah Ben Chilkiyah Ben Meshullam Ben Tzadok Ben Merayot Ben Achituv, the nagid of the Bais HaElohim; 
And Adayah Ben Yerocham Ben Pashchur Ben Malkiyah, and Ma'asai Ben Adiel Ben Yachzerah, Ben Meshullam Ben Meshilemit Ben Immer; 
And their brethren, heads of their bais avot, 1,760; gibborei chayil for the work of the avodas Bais HaElohim. 
And of the Levi'im: Shema'yah Ben Chashuv Ben Azrikam Ben Chashavyah of the Bnei Merari; 
And Bakbakkar, Cheresh, Galal, and Matanyah Ben Micha Ben Zichri Ben Asaph; 
And Ovadyah Ben Shema'yah Ben Galal Ben Yedutun, and Berechyah Ben Asa Ben Elkanah, that dwelt in the villages of the Netophati. 
And the sho'arim were Shallum, Akkuv, Talmon, Achiman, and their brethren; Shallum was HaRosh, 
Who up to now had been stationed at Sha'ar HaMelech eastward; they were sho'arim in the machanot Bnei Levi. 
And Shallum Ben Kore Ben Evyasaph Ben Korach and his brethren of the bais aviv, the Korchim, were over the work of the avodah, shomrei hasapim laOhel (keepers of the thresholds of the Tent); and avoteihem, being over the Machaneh Hashem, were shomrim of the entrance. 
And Pinchas Ben El'azar was nagid over them in time past, and Hashem was with him. 
And Zecharyah Ben Meshelemyah was sho'er (doorkeeper, gatekeeper) of the Petach of the Ohel Mo'ed. 
All these which were haberurim (the ones being chosen) to be sho'arim (gatekeepers) in the sapim (thresholds) were 212. These were reckoned by their genealogy in their villages, whom Dovid and Shmuel the Ro'eh (seer) did assign in their emunah (set office, entrusted responsibility). 
So they and their banim had the oversight of the she'arim (gates) of the Beis Hashem, namely, the Beis HaOhel, by mishmarot (shifts, watches). 
In four quarters were the sho'arim, toward the east, west, north, and south. 
And their brethren, which were in their villages, were to come after shivat hayamim from time to time with them. 
For these Levi'im, the four gibborei hasho'arim, were in their emunah (set office, entrusted responsibility), and were over the rooms and otzarot (treasuries) of the Bais HaElohim. 
And they spent the night around the Bais HaElohim, because the mishmeret was upon them; they were responsible for the mafte'ach (key) thereof laboker laboker. 
And certain of them had the charge of the kelim (vessels) of the avodah (service, ministry), that they should bring them in and out by inventory count. 
Some of them also were appointed to oversee the kelim (vessels), and all the k'lei haKodesh, and the solet (flour), and the yayin, and the shemen, and the incense, and the spices. 
And some of the Bnei HaKohanim mixed the blending of the spices. 
And Mattityah, one of the Levi'im, who was the bechor of Shallum the Korchi, had the emunah (set office, entrusted responsibility) over the things that were made in hachavitim (panbaking). 
And other of their brethren, of the Bnei HaKehati, were over the Lechem HaMaarechet (Bread of Array, Showbread), to prepare it Shabbos Shabbos. 
And these are the meshorerim (singers), family heads of the Levi'im, who remained in the Peturim Chambers; for they were employed in that work yomam valailah. 
These family heads of the Levi'im were heads throughout their toldot; these dwelt at Yerushalayim. 
And in Giv'on dwelt the avi Giv'on, Ye'iel, the shem of whose isha was Ma'achah, 
And his bechor Avdon, then Tzur, and Kish, and Ba'al, and Ner, and Nadav. 
And Gedor, and Achyo, and Zecharyah, and Miklot. 
And Miklot fathered Shim'am. And they also dwelt near their brethren at Yerushalayim with their brethren. 
And Ner fathered Kish; and Kish fathered Sha'ul; and Sha'ul fathered Yonatan, and Malki-Shu'a, and Avinadav, and Eshba'al. 
And the Ben Yonatan was Meriv-Ba'al; and Meriv-Ba'al fathered Michah. 
And the Bnei Michah were Piton, and Melech, and Tachre'a. 
And Achaz fathered Yarah; and Yarah fathered Alemet, and Azmavet, and Zimri; and Zimri fathered Motza; 
And Motza fathered Bine'a; and Refayah bno, El'asah bno, Atzel bno. 
And Atzel had six banim, whose shmot are these; Azrikam, Bocheru, and Yishmael, and She'aryah, and Ovadyah, and Chanan; these were the Bnei Atzel. 
