IYOV.
Chapter 10.
My nefesh is sick of my life; I will give free rein to my si'akh (complaint); I will speak in the mar (bitterness) of my nefesh. 
I will say unto Eloah, Do not condemn me; show me what charge Thou dost contend with me. 
Is it hatov (pleasing) unto Thee that Thou shouldest oppress, that Thou shouldest reject the work of Thine hands, and shine favor upon the etzah (scheme) of the resha'im? 
Hast Thou eyes of basar? Or seest Thou as enosh seeth? 
Are Thy yamim like the yamim of enosh? Are Thy years like the days of gever (man), 
That Thou seekest after mine avon, and searchest after my chattat? 
Though Thou has da'as that I am not a resha, and there is none that can deliver out of Thine yad, 
Thine yadayim have formed me and altogether round about have fashioned me; yet Thou hast now swallowed me. 
Remember, now, that Thou hast molded me like the chomer (clay), and wilt Thou turn me into aphar again? 
Hast Thou not poured me out like cholov, and curdled me like gvinah (cheese)? 
Thou hast clothed me with ohr and basar, and hast knitted me together with atzmot and sinews. 
Thou hast granted me chayyim and chesed, and Thy visitation hath been shomer over my ruach. 
And these things hast Thou hid in Thine lev; I have da'as that this was in Thy mind. 
If I sin, then Thou art shomer over me, and Thou wilt not let my avon go unpunished. 
If I am guilty, woe unto me; even if I be tzaddik (innocent), yet will I not lift up my head, being full of kalon (shame) and conscious of my oni (misery), 
For if my head is held high, Thou stalkest me like a fierce lion, and ever Thou displayest Thy awesome power against me. 
Thou bringest Thy fresh edim (witnesses) against me, and increasest Thine hot indignation toward me; in waves Thy tzava troop against me. 
Why then hast Thou brought me forth out of the rechem (womb)? Oh that I had expired, and no eye had seen me! 
I should have been as though I had never been; I should have been carried from the beten straight to the kever. 
Are not my yamim few? Then cease, and let me alone, that I may take a little cheer 
Before I go from where I shall not return, even to the Eretz Choshech V'Tzalmavet, 
An eretz of darkness, like darkness itself; and of tzalmavet, no sedarim (order), where the light is like darkness. 
