MISHLE.
Chapter 10.
The mishle (proverbs) of Sh'lomo. A ben chacham maketh glad an av, but a ben kesil is the grief of his em. 
Otzarot resha profit nothing, but tzedakah (righteousness) saveth from mavet. 
Hashem will not suffer the nefesh of the tzaddik to famish, but He thwarteth the craving of the resha'im. 
He becometh poor that dealeth with a negligent palm, but the yad of the diligent maketh wealth. 
He that gathereth in kayitz is a ben maskil (son of wisdom), but he that sleepeth in katzir (harvest) is a ben that causeth shame. 
Brakhot are upon the head of the tzaddik, but chamas covereth the peh (mouth) of the resha'im. 
The memory of the tzaddik is as bracha, but the shem resha'im shall rot. 
The chacham lev will receive mitzvot, but one with foolish sfatayim (lips) shall be thrust down. 
He that walketh uprightly walketh securely, but he that perverteth his drakhim shall be known. 
He that winketh with the ayin causeth trouble, but one with foolish sfatayim shall come to ruin. 
The peh (mouth) of a tzaddik is a Makor Chayyim, but chamas covereth the peh (mouth) of the resha'im. 
Sin'ah (hatred) stirreth up medanim (dissensions), but ahavah covereth all peysha'im. 
In the sfatayim (lips) of him that hath understanding chochmah is found, but a shevet (rod) is for the back of him that is devoid of lev. 
Chachamim treasure up da'as (knowledge); but the peh (mouth) of the foolish is near destruction. 
The oisherʼs wealth is his strong city; the destruction of the poor ones is their poverty. 
The wage of the tzaddik leadeth to Chayyim; the wage of the rashah is for chattat. 
He is in the orach (path) of Chayyim that is shomer over musar, but he that abandoneth tokhakhat (reproof) goes astray. 
He that hideth sin'ah with sfatayim sheker, and he that uttereth a slander, is a kesil (fool). 
In the multitude of devarim there wanteth not sin, but he that restraineth his sfatayim (lips) is maskil (wise). 
The lashon of the tzaddik is as choice kesef; the lev of the resha'im is of little worth. 
The sfatayim (lips) of the tzaddik feed rabbim (many), but fools die for lack of lev. 
The Birkat Hashem, it maketh wealthy, and He addeth no sorrow with it. 
It is as sport to a kesil to do zimmah (evil design), but an ish tevunah (man of understanding) hath chochmah. 
What the rashah dreads, it shall come upon him, but the ta'avat tzaddikim shall be granted. 
As the whirlwind passeth, so is the rashah no more, but the tzaddik is a yesod olam (an everlasting foundation). 
As chometz to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the atzel (sluggard, lazy one) to them that send him. 
The Yirat Hashem prolongeth yamim; but the shanot of the resha'im shall be cut short. 
The prospect of the tzaddikim shall be simchah, but the tikveh of the resha'im shall perish. 
The Derech Hashem is maoz to the blameless, but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity. 
The tzaddik shall never be removed, but the resha'im shall not inhabit Eretz. 
The peh (mouth) of the tzaddik bringeth forth chochmah, but the lashon tahpukhot (tongue of perversion, distortion) shall be cut off. 
The sfatayim (lips) of the tzaddik know what is ratzon (acceptable), but the peh (mouth) of the resha'im speaketh tahpukhot (perversity). 
