YESHAYAH.
Chapter 52.
Awake, awake; clothe thyself with thy strength, O Tziyon; put on thy garments of splendor, O Yerushalayim, Ir HaKodesh; for henceforth there shall no more come into thee the arel (uncircumcised) and the tameh (unclean). 
Shake thyself from the dust; arise, O captive Yerushalayim; free thyself from the chains around thy neck, O captive Bat Tziyon. 
For thus saith Hashem, Ye have sold yourselves for nothing; and your geulah (redemption) shall be without kesef. 
For thus saith Adonoi Hashem: My people went down at first into Mitzrayim to sojourn there; and lately the Assyrian oppressed them. 
Now therefore, what have I here, saith Hashem, that My people is taken away for nothing? They that rule over them mock them, saith Hashem; and all day long Shemi (My Name) is continually blasphemed. 
Therefore My people shall know Shemi; therefore they shall know in Yom Hahu that I am He that doth speak; hineni, (behold, it is I). 
How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of the Mevaser (bringer of Good Tidings, the Evangelist), that publisheth shalom; that bringeth good tidings of tov, that publisheth Yeshu'ah (Salvation); that saith unto Tziyon: Thy G-d reigneth! 
Thy tzofim (watchmen) shall lift up the kol (voice); with the kol together shall they shout for joy; for they shall see it with their own eyes, when Hashem returns to Tziyon. 
Break forth into joy, sing together, ye ruins of Yerushalayim; for Hashem hath comforted His people, He hath redeemed Yerushalayim. 
Hashem hath made bare His zero'a kedoshah in the eyes of Kol HaGoyim; and all the ends of ha'aretz shall see the Yeshu'at Eloheinu. 
Depart ye, depart ye; come ye out from there; touch not tameh (unclean thing); come ye out of the midst of her; be ye clean, that carry the k'lei Hashem. 
For ye shall not go out with haste, nor go by flight; for Hashem will go before you; and Elohei Yisroel will be your rearguard. 
Hinei, Avdi shall act wisely, he shall be raised and be lifted up, and be highly exalted. 
As rabbim (many) were appalled at thee; his appearance was so disfigured more than any man, and his form more than the bnei adam; 
So yazzeh Goyim rabbim (he Moshiach will sprinkle many nations); the melachim (kings) shall shut their mouths because of him; for that which had not been told them shall they see; and of that which they had not heard shall they have binah (understanding). 
