YEHOSHUA.
Chapter 19.
And the second goral (lot) came to Shim'on, even for the tribe of the Bnei Shim'on according to their mishpekhot; and their nachalah was within the nachalah of the Bnei Yehudah. 
And they had in their nachalah Be'er-Sheva, and Sheva, and Moladah, 
And Chatzar Shual, and Balah, and Etzem, 
And Eltolad, and Beitul, and Chormah, 
And Tziklag, and Beit-HaMarkavot, and Chatzar Susah, 
And Beit-Levaot, and Sharuchen; 13 towns and their villages; 
Ayin, Rimmon, and Eter, and Ashan; 4 towns and their villages; 
And all the villages that were around these towns as far as Ba'alat Be'er, Ramat Negev. This is the nachalah of the tribe of the Bnei Shim'on according to their mishpekhot. 
Out of the chevel (portion, lot) of the Bnei Yehudah was the nachalah of the Bnei Shim'on; for the chelek of the Bnei Yehudah was too much for them; therefore the Bnei Shim'on had their nachalah within the nachalah of them. 
And the third goral came up for the Bnei Zevulun according to their mishpekhot; and the boundary of their nachalah was as far as Sarid; 
And their boundary went up to the west, and Maralah, and reached to Dabeshet, and reached to the wadi that is opposite Yokne'am; 
And turned from Sarid eastward toward the rising of the shemesh unto the territory of Kislot Tavor, and then goeth out to Dovrat, and goeth up to Yaphia, 
And from there passeth on along on the east to Gat-Chepher, to Et-Katzin, and goeth out to Rimmon being bent unto Neah; 
And the boundary goes around it on the north to Chanaton; and ends at the valley of Yiphtach-El; 
And Kattat, and Nahalal, and Shimron, and Yidalah, and Beit-Lechem; 12 towns with their villages. 
This is the nachalah of the Bnei Zevulun according to their mishpekhot, these towns with their villages. 
And the fourth goral came out to Yissakhar, for the Bnei Yissakhar according to their mishpekhot. 
And their territory was toward Yizre'el, and Kesulot, and Shunem, 
And Chapharayim, and Shi'on, and Anacharat, 
And Rabit, and Kishyon, and Evetz, 
And Remet, and Ein-Gannim, and Ein-Chaddah, and Beit-Patzetz; 
And the boundary reacheth to Tavor, and Shachatzimah, and Beit-Shemesh; and the end of their boundary was at the Yarden; 16 towns with their villages. 
This is the nachalah of the tribe of the Bnei Yissakhar according to their mishpekhot, the towns and their villages. 
And the fifth goral came out for the tribe of Bnei Asher according to their mishpekhot. 
And their territory was Chelkat, and Chali, and Beten, and Akhshaph, 
And Alammelech, and Amad, and Mish'al; and reacheth to Carmel westward, and to Shichor-Livnat; 
And turneth toward the rising of the shemesh toward Beit-Dagon, and reacheth to Zevulun, and to the valley of Yiphtach-El toward the north side of Beit Emek, and Ne'i'el, and goeth out to Kavul on the north, 
And Evron, and Rechov, and Chammon, and Kanah, even as far as Tzidon Rabbah; 
And then the boundary turneth to Ramah, and to the fortress-city of Tzor; and the boundary turneth to Chosah; and the end thereof is at the Yam in the region of Akhziv; 
Ummah also, and Aphek, and Rechov; 22 towns with their villages. 
This is the nachalah of the tribe of the Bnei Asher according to their mishpekhot, these towns with their villages. 
The sixth goral came out to the Bnei Naphtali, even for the Bnei Naphtali according to their mishpekhot. 
And their boundary ran from Cheleph, from Elon in Tza'anannim, Adami-Nekev, and Yavne'el, unto Lakum; and ended at the Yarden; 
And the boundary ran westward to Aznot Tavor, and goeth out from there to Chukok, and reacheth to Zevulun on the south side, and reacheth to Asher on the west side, and to Yehudah upon the Yarden toward the rising of the shemesh. 
And the fortified cities are Tzidim, Tzer, and Chammat, Rakat, and Kinneret, 
And Adamah, and Ramah, and Chatzor, 
And Kedesh, and Edre'i, and Ein Chatzor, 
And Yiron, and Migdal-El, Chorem, and Beit-Anat, and Beit-Shemesh; 19 towns with their villages. 
This is the nachalah of the tribe of the Bnei Naphtali according to their mishpekhot, the towns and their villages. 
And the seventh goral came out for the tribe of the Bnei Dan according to their mishpekhot. 
And the territory of their nachalah was Tzorah, and Eshta'ol, and Ir Shemesh, 
And Shaalabbin, and Ayalon, and Yitlah, 
And Elon, and Timnah, and Ekron, 
And Eltekeh, and Gibeton, and Ba'alat, 
And Yehud, and Bnei Berak, and Gat-Rimmon, 
And Yarkon, and Rakkon, with the boundary facing Yafo. 
And the territory of the Bnei Dan went out being too small for them; therefore the Bnei Dan went up to fight against Leshem, and took it, and struck it down with the edge of the cherev, and possessed it, and dwelt therein, and called Leshem Dan, after the shem of Dan their av. 
This is the nachalah of the tribe of the Bnei Dan according to their mishpekhot, these towns with their villages. 
When they had made an end of dividing HaAretz for nachalah by their portions, the Bnei Yisroel gave a nachalah to Yehoshua ben Nun among them. 
According to the Devar Hashem they gave him the Ir for which he asked, even Timnat-Serach in Mt Ephrayim; and he built the town, and dwelt therein. 
These are hanechalot (the inheritances), which El'azar HaKohen, and Yehoshua ben Nun, and the Roshei HaAvot of the tribes of the Bnei Yisroel, distributed by lot in Shiloh before Hashem, at the petach of the Ohel Mo'ed. So they made an end of dividing up HaAretz. 
