MATTITYAHU.
Chapter 10.
And summoning his Shneym Asar (Twelve) Talmidim, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach gave to them samchut (authority) over shedim (unclean spirits), so as to cast them out, and samchut (authority) to call forth refuah for every machla and every illness. 
Now of the Shneym Asar Shlichim, the names are these: first, Shim'on, the one being called Kefa, and Andrew his brother, Ya'akov Ben Zavdai and Yochanan his brother, 
Philippos and Bar-Talmai, T'oma and Mattityahu the moches, Ya'akov Ben-Chalfai and Taddai, 
Shim'on the Zealot and Yehudah from K'riot, who betrayed Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
These Shneym Asar (Twelve) did Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach send out with the following directives, saying: In the Derech HaGoyim (Way of the Gentiles, Gentile territory) do not go, and do not enter into any Shomron town, 
but go rather to the Seh Oveid Beis Yisroel (the Lost Sheep of the House of Israel). 
And, while going, preach that the Malchut HaShomayim is imminent and miyad. 
Heal the cholim, raise the mesim, cleanse the metzoraim (lepers), cast out the shedim; freely you received, freely give. 
Take neither gold nor silver nor copper for your money belts, 
nor a schnorrerʼs (beggarʼs) bag for the road, nor two bekishe, nor sandals, nor a staff, for the oseh hamelachah (the one doing the work) is worthy of his lechem. 
And into whichever town or shtetl you enter, inquire who in it is a ben chayil (son of worthiness), and there remain until you leave. 
And when you enter into the bais (house), give that household your “Shalom”! 
And if indeed the bais is a bais chayil (a house of worthiness), let your shalom come upon it; but if it is not a bais chayil, let your shalom return to you. 
And whoever neither receives you nor listens to your divrei, as you are leaving and as you go outside of that bais (house) or city, then let it be NIER CHATZNO (shake out the fold of the robe), shake off the dust of your feet. 
Omein, I say to you, it will be more tolerable on Yom HaDin (the Day of Judgment) for S'dom and Amora than for that shtetl. 
Hinei! I send you as kevesim (sheep) in the midst of ze'evim; therefore, have the seichel (wisdom) of nachashim (serpents) and be tamim (faultless) as yonim (doves). 
And beware of Bnei Adam, for they will deliver you up to the sanhedriyot (local councils, bet din courts) and in their shuls they will subject you to the shot (whip). 
And before moshelim (governors) and also melachim (kings) you will be led for my sake, for an edut (testimony) to them and to the Goyim. 
But when they deliver you up, do not be of a LEV ROGEZ(anxious heart) worried about how or what you are to say; for it will be given to you in that hour what you are to speak. 
For you are not the ones speaking, but the Ruach Avichem (the Spirit of your Father) is the one speaking in you. 
And brother will deliver up to death his own brother, even an abba his own yeled. And yeladim will stand up against their horim (parents) and put them to death. 
And you will be under the sinas chinom (baseless hatred) of kol Bnei Adam on account of my Name; but the one enduring ad es HaKetz (until the End) will receive the Yeshu'at Eloheinu (the Salvation of our G-d). 
But when they persecute you in one shtetl, flee to the other; for, omein, I say to you, by no means will you complete the shtetlach of Eretz Yisroel until the Bias HaMoshiach(Coming of the Moshiach, the Bar Enosh). 
A talmid is not above his Rebbe nor an eved (servant) above his Baal Bayit (master). 
It is enough for the talmid that he be like his Rebbe, and the eved like his Baal Bayit. If they called the Baal Bayit Baal-zibbul, how much more the anashim (men) in his bais. 
Therefore, do not fear them; for nothing has been veiled which will not be unveiled; and nothing has been nistar (hidden) which will not be made known. 
What I say to you in the choshech (darkness), you declare in the ohr (light); and what you hear whispered into your ears, shout, preach, from the rooftops. 
And do not fear those who kill the basar (flesh), but are unable to kill the nefesh (soul); but rather fear the One who is able to destroy both basar and nefesh in Gehinnom. 
Are not two sparrows sold for the least valuable copper coin? And yet not one of them will fall to the ground apart from Avichem! 
But, as far as you are concerned, even the hairs of your rosh have been inventoried. 
Therefore, al taarotz (do not be afraid)! You are of more value than many sparrows! 
Therefore, everyone who shall declare publicly the Ani Maamin hoda'ah of me, before Bnei HaAdam, I will make hoda'ah (acknowledgment) of him before Avi sh'ba'Shomayim. 
But everyone who makes hakhchashah (denial) of me, I also will make hakhchashah (denial) of him before Avi sh'ba'Shomayim. 
Do not think that I have come to bring shalom al haaretz (peace on the earth); I have not come to bring shalom but a cherev (sword). 
For I came to divide a man against his Av, and a bat against her Em, and a kallah (bride) against her chamot (mother-in-law, shviger). 
And the OIYVEI ISH ANSHEI VEITO(the enemies of a man will be the members of his own household). 
The one who has more ahavah (love) for a tata (papa) or a mama than for me is not worthy of me, and the one who has more ahavah (love) for a ben or a bat than me is not worthy of me. 
The one who does not take up his etz shel mesiros nefesh (tree of self-sacrifice) and follow after me, is not worthy of me. 
The one who has found his nefesh will lose it; the one who has lost his nefesh for my sake will find it. 
The one who gives the kabbalat panim (welcome) to you gives the Baruch Habah (welcome) to me, and the one who gives the Baruch Habah to me gives the Baruch Habah to the One who sent me. 
The one who gives the Baruch Habah to a navi (prophet) in the name of a navi will receive the sachar (reward) of a navi, and the one who gives the Baruch Habah to a tzaddik (righteous man) in the name of a tzaddik will receive the sachar of a tzaddik. 
And whoever in the name of a talmid gives only a cup of cold water to one of these little ones, omein, I say to you, he will by no means lose his sachar. 
