BERESHIS.
Chapter 20.
And Avraham journeyed from there toward the Negev region, and dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar. 
And Avraham said of Sarah his isha, She is my achot; and Avimelech Melech Gerar sent, and took Sarah. 
But Elohim came to Avimelech in a chalom halailah, and said to him, See, thou art met (dead), for the isha which thou hast taken; for she is be'ulat ba'al (married of a husband). 
But Avimelech had not come near her; and he said, Adonoi, wilt Thou slay also a goy tzaddik? 
Said he not unto me, She is my achot? and she, even she herself said, He is achi: in the tohm (integrity, guilelessness) of my lev and with clean hands of my innocency have I done this. 
And HaElohim said unto him in a chalom, Yea, I have da'as that thou didst this in the tohm (integrity, guilelessness) of thy lev; for I also withheld thee from sinning against Me; therefore allowed I thee not to touch her. 
Now therefore restore the ish his isha; for he is a navi, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live; and if thou restore her not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are thine. 
Therefore Avimelech rose early in the boker, and called all his avadim, and told all these things in their ears; and the anashim were very afraid. 
Then Avimelech called Avraham, and said unto him, What hast thou done unto us? and how have I offended thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my mamlechah (kingdom) a chata'ah gedolah (great sin)? thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done. 
And Avimelech said unto Avraham, What sawest thou, that thou hast done this thing? 
And Avraham said, Because I thought, Surely the yirat Elohim is not in this place; and they will slay me on account of my isha. 
And yet indeed she is my achot; she is the bat avi, but not the bat immi; and she became my isha. 
And it came to pass, when Elohim caused me to wander from my bais avi, that I said unto her, This is thy chesed which thou shalt show unto me; at every place where we shall come, say of me, He is achi. 
And Avimelech took tzon, and oxen, and avadim, and shfachot, and gave them unto Avraham, and restored to him Sarah his isha. 
And Avimelech said, Hinei, my land is before thee; dwell where it pleaseth thee. 
And unto Sarah he said, Hinei, I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of kesef; hinei, it is to thee a kesut einayim (covering of the eyes, exoneration), unto all that are with thee, and with all other; thus she was vindicated. 
So Avraham davened unto Elohim: and Elohim healed Avimelech, and his isha, and his maidservants so that they bore children. 
For Hashem had fast closed up kol rechem (every womb) of the bais Avimelech, on account of Sarah Avrahamʼs isha. 
