YESHAYAH.
Chapter 33.
Hoy (woe, doom) to thee that destroyest, and thou wast not destroyed; and dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously as a boged (traitor, treacherous person) with thee! When thou shalt cease to destroy, thou shalt be destroyed; and when thou shalt make an end to deal treacherously, they shall deal treacherously as a boged with thee. 
Hashem, be gracious unto us; we have waited for Thee; be Thou their zero'a in the bekarim (mornings), our Yeshu'ah (salvation) also in the time of tzoros. 
At the noise of the tumult the peoples fled; at the lifting up of Thyself the Goyim were scattered. 
And your shalal (booty, plunder, gain) shall be gathered like the gathering of the locusts; as the swarm of grasshoppers shall men pounce upon them. 
Hashem is exalted; for He dwelleth on high; He hath filled Tziyon with mishpat and tzedakah. 
And He shall be the emunah (faithfulness, stability) of thy times, a rich store of Yeshu'ah (salvation), chochmah, and da'as; the yirat Hashem is his otzar (treasure). 
Behold, their valiant ones shall cry in the street; the malachei shalom shall weep bitterly. 
The mesillot (highways) lie in ruins, the wayfaring man ceaseth; he hath annulled the brit (covenant), he hath despised the towns, he regardeth no enosh (humankind). 
Ha'aretz mourneth and languisheth; Levanon is ashamed and shriveled; Sharon is like an aravah; and Bashan and Carmel shake off their foliage. 
Now will I arise, saith Hashem; now will I be exalted; now will I lift up Myself. 
Ye shall conceive chaff, ye shall bring forth straw; your ruach (breath), as eish, shall devour you. 
And the peoples shall be as the burnings of lime; as thorns cut up shall they be burned in the eish. 
Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and, ye that are near, acknowledge My gevurah (might). 
The chatta'im (sinners) in Tziyon are terrified; trembling hath seized the khanafim (hypocrites). Who among us can dwell with the devouring eish? Who among us can dwell with mokedei olam(everlasting burnings)? 
He that walketh in tzedakot, and speaketh meisharim (right things), he that despiseth the gain of extortions, that guards his palms from accepting shochad (bribes), that stoppeth his ozen from hearing of dahm, and shutteth his eynayim from seeing rah; 
He shall dwell on high; his metzadot shall be the rocky fortress; his lechem shall be given him; his mayim shall be unfailing. 
Thine eynayim shall see Melech in His yafeh (beauty); they shall behold eretz that is very far off. 
Thine lev shall ponder terror. Where is the sofer (scribe)? Where is he who weighs? Where is he that counts the migdalim (towers)? 
Thou shalt no longer see a fierce people, a people of unfathomable language that is incomprehensible, of a stammering lashon, that thou canst not understand. 
Look upon Tziyon, the city of mo'adenu (our appointed times, festivals); thine eynayim shall see Yerushalayim a quiet naveh, an ohel that shall not be taken down; not one stake thereof shall ever be pulled up, neither shall any of the ropes thereof be broken. 
But there Adir Hashem will be unto us a makom (place) of broad rivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall a mighty ship pass thereby. 
For Hashem is our Shofet, Hashem is Mechokkeinu (our Lawgiver), Hashem is Malkeinu; Hu yoshieinu (He will save us). 
Thy riggings are loosed; they could not well strengthen their mast, they could not spread the nes (sail); then is the shalal (spoil, plunder) of a great plunder divided; the pisechim (lame ones) take the plunder. 
And the inhabitant of Yerushalayim shall not say, I am ill; the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their avon. 
