YOCHANAN.
Chapter 18.
These things having said, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach went out with his talmidim across the Kidron Valley, where there was a Gahn (Garden) into which Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach entered with his talmidim. 
Now also Yehudah from K'riot, the one betraying Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, had da'as of the place, because often Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach gathered there with his talmidim. 
Then, Yehudah from K'riot, having taken the band of chaiyalim (soldiers) and avadim of the Rashei Hakohanim and of the Perushim, comes there with torches and lamps and weapons. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, therefore, having had da'as of everything coming upon him, went out and says to them, Whom do you seek? 
They said in reply, Yehoshua, the one from Natzeret. Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Ani Hu. Now also Yehudah, the one betraying him, had stood with them. 
When therefore Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach told them, Ani Hu, they recoiled and fell to the ground. 
Therefore, again he questioned them, Whom do you seek? And they said, Yehoshua, the one from Natzeret. 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, I told you that Ani Hu. If therefore you seek me, let these Bnei Adam go away, 
That may be fulfilled the dvar which said, Those whom You have given me, I did not lose any one of them. 
Then Shim'on Kefa, having a cherev (sword), drew it and struck the eved of the Kohen Gadol and cut off his right ear. The name of the eved was Malchus. 
Therefore, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to Kefa, Put the cherev into the sheath. The kos which HaAv of me has given me, should I not drink it? 
Then the band of chaiyalim, their commander, and the avadim (officials) of Yehudah took him and performed the akedah (binding) on him. 
First they led him to Anan (Annas), for he was khoten (father-in-law) of Caiapha, who was Kohen Gadol that year. 
Now Caiapha was the one having given counsel to those of Yehudah that it is a bedievedike thing (expedient) for one man to die for HaAm. 
Now Shim'on Kefa and another talmid were following Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. And that other talmid was known to the Kohen Gadol, and that other talmid entered with Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach into the court of the Kohen Gadol. 
But Kefa had stood at the sha'ar outside. Therefore, the other talmid went out, the one known to the Kohen Gadol, and spoke to the gatekeeper and brought in Kefa. 
Therefore, the maid says to Kefa, Surely you are not also of this manʼs talmidim? He said, I am not. 
And the avadim and the mesharetim had made a hadlakah (bonfire), because it was cold, and they were standing around the hadlakah warming themselves. And also Kefa was with them, standing and warming himself. 
Then the Kohen Gadol interrogated Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach about his talmidim and his torah (teaching). 
In reply, he said, In public I have spoken to the Olam Hazeh; I always taught in the Beit Haknesset and in the Beis Hamikdash, where all the Yehudim come together. Besod (in secret) I spoke nothing. 
Why do you put a she'elah (question) to me? Put a she'elah to the ones having heard what I spoke to them. Hinei, these ones have da'as of what things I said. 
But these things having said, one of the mesharetim, one standing nearby, struck Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, saying, Is this the way to answer the Kohen Gadol? 
In reply, he spoke, If I spoke wrongly, give edut (testimony) about the wrong; but if tov, why do you strike me? 
Then Anan sent him, still in the akedah, to Caiapha the Kohen Gadol. 
Now with Shim'on Kefa still standing and warming himself, they said, therefore, to him, Surely you are not also of his talmidim, are you? In reply, he said, I am not. 
One of the avadim of the Kohen Gadol, one who was a relative of him, one whose ear Kefa cut off, says, Did I not see you in the Gahn (Garden) with him? 
Therefore, again Kefa made hakhchashah (denial). And immediately a tarnegol (cock) crowed. 
Therefore, they led Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach from Caiapha to the Praetorium. And it was early. They themselves did not enter into the Praetorium so as not to become tema'im (unclean) and so as to be able to eat the Pesach. 
Pilate went forth outside to them and says, What sitnah (accusation, indictment) do you bring against this man? 
In reply, they said to him, If this man were not an evil-doer, we would not have handed him over to you. 
Therefore, Pilate said to them, Take him and judge him according to your Torah. Those of Yehudah said to him, It is not lawful for us to kill anyone. 
(This was to fulfill the dvar of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach which he said, signifying by what mavet he was about to die). 
Therefore, Pilate again entered into the Praetorium and called Yehoshua, and said to him, Are you HaMelech HaYehudim? 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach asked, From yourself you say this or another told you about me? 
In reply, Pilate said, Am I a Yehudi? Your nation and your Kohen Gadol handed you over to me. What did you do? 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, My Malchut is not of the Olam Hazeh. If my Malchut were of the Olam Hazeh, my mesharetim would have fought, that I should not be delivered to those of Yehudah; but now my Malchut is not from here. 
Therefore, Pilate said to him, So you are a Melech (King)? In reply, he said, You say that I am a Melech. For this I have been born and for this I have come into the Olam Hazeh, that I might bear solemn edut (testimony) to HaEmes. Everyone who is of HaEmes hears my voice. 
Pilate says to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, What is HaEmes? And having said this, again Pilate went out to those of Yehudah, and says to them, I find no avon (offense), no cause for punishment, in him. 
But there is a minhag (custom) for you, that I may release one to you during the Pesach. Do you want, therefore, that I release to you the Melech HaYehudim? 
Therefore, they cried out again, saying, Not this man but Bar-Abba. Now Bar-Abba was an insurrectionist shoded (robber). 
