LUKAS.
Chapter 22.
And the Chag HaMatzot was approaching, the feast called Pesach. 
And the Rashei Hakohanim and the Sofrim were seeking how they might destroy him, for they were afraid of the people. 
And HaSatan entered into Yehudah, the one being called Yehudah from K'riot, being one of the Shneym Asar. 
And having departed, Yehudah spoke with the Rashei Hakohanim and Ketzinim (Officers) of the Beis Hamikdash how he might hand him over to them. 
And they got a lot of geshmak out of this, and they agreed to pay him kesef. 
And Yehudah consented and he was seeking an opportunity to betray him when there was no multitude with them. 
Shoin (already) now came the Yom HaMatzot, in which it was necessary to sacrifice the Pesach Korban, the Seh (Lamb). 
And he sent Kefa and Yochanan, having said, Go and make our preparations that we may eat and have the Pesach Seder. 
And they said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Where do you wish that we should prepare it? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Hinei. When you enter into HaIr, you will meet a man carrying a jar of mayim. Follow him into the bais (house) into which he enters, 
And you will say to the Baal Bayit, The Rebbe says to you, Where is the mekom linah (guest room) where I may conduct the Pesach Seder with my talmidim? 
And that one will show you a large aliyyah having been furnished: there prepare the Seder. 
And having departed, they found things just as he had told them, and they prepared the Seder. 
And when the hour came, he reclined at tish and the Moshiachʼs Shlichim were with him. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, With great tshuka (deep and sincere desire, longing) I have desired to eat this Pesach with you before I suffer. 
For I say to you, I may by no means eat it until it is fulfilled in the Malchut Hashem. 
And having taken the Cup of Redemption, having made the bracha, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Take this, and share it among yourselves. 
For I say to you, from now on by no means shall I drink from the p'ri hagefen until the Malchut Hashem comes. 
And having taken the Afikoman and having made the hamotzi, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach broke the matzah and gave it to them, saying, This is my BASAR being given for you: this do in zikaron (remembrance) of me. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach took the kos (cup) similarly after they ate, saying, This kos (cup) is HaBrit HaChadasha in my dahm, being shed for you. 
Nevertheless, hinei, the hand of the one betraying me is with me on the tish (table). 
Because the Bar Enosh indeed goes according to the thing having been determined: but oy to that man through whom he is betrayed. 
And they began to discuss among themselves who then it might be among them that would do this. 
And there came about also a dispute among them, as to which of them seemed to be the Gadol. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, The melachim (kings) of the Goyim domineer them and the ones having shlita (control) over the Goyim are called benefactors. 
But with you it is not so, but he of the Gedolim among you, let him be as the youngest, and he of the Manhigim, as the one serving. 
For who is HaGadol? The one reclining at tish or the one serving? Is it not the one reclining at tish? But I am in your midst as one serving. 
But you are the ones having remained with me in my nisyonos (temptations). 
And I assign shlita (authority) to you, just as Avi assigned shlita to me; a Malchut (Kingdom), 
That you may eat and drink at my tish in my Malchut, and you will sit upon kissot (thrones) judging the Shneym Asar Shivtei Yisroel (Twelve Tribes of Yisroel). 
Shim'on, Shim'on, hinei, HaSatan asked for you, to sift you like wheat. 
But I davened for you, that your emunah may not fail: and when you have made teshuva, give chizzuk to your Achim b'Moshiach. 
But Shim'on Kefa said to him, Adoni, with you I am prepared even to go to the beis hasohar, even to die al kiddush ha-Shem. 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, I say to you, a tarnegol will not crow hayom until shalosh pe'amim you, Kefa, will make hakhchashah (denial) of your daas of me. 
He said to them, When I sent you without a money belt and a bag and sandals, did you lack anything? And they said, Nothing. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, But now the one having a money belt, let him take it; likewise also a bag; and the one not having, let him sell his kaftan and let him buy a cherev. 
For I say to you, that it is necessary that what stands written be fulfilled in me, VES POSHEIM NIMNAH(and with lawless persons he was numbered). For indeed what was written about me is being fulfilled. 
And they said, Adoni, hinei, here are shtei charavot (two swords). And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, It is enough. 
And having gone out, he went according to his kvius (regimen) to the Har HaZeytim, and his talmidim followed him also. 
And having come to the place, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Daven and offer tefillos, lest you enter lidey nisayon(into temptation). 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach had withdrawn from them about a stoneʼs throw, and, having fallen down, he was davening, 
Saying, Avi, im yirtzeh Hashem, if You are willing, take this kos (cup) away from me. Nevertheless not the ratzon of me but rtzonecha (Thy will) be done. 
And a malach min HaShomayim appeared to him, strengthening him. 
And having been in agony, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was davening more fervently; and his sweat became like drops of dahm falling down upon the adamah. 
And having got up from davening and having come to the talmidim, he found them sleeping, because of agmat nefesh (grief). 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Why are you sleeping? Get up, daven, lest you enter lidey nisayon (into temptation). 
Yet as he was speaking, hinei, a multitude! And going at their head was the one being called Yehudah, one of the Shneym Asar, and he drew near to Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach to give him a neshikah (kiss). 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Yehudah, do you with a neshikah the Bar Enosh betray? 
But having seen what was coming, the ones around Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Adoni, should we strike with the cherev (sword)? 
And a certain one of them struck the eved (servant) of the Rashei Hakohanim and cut off his right ear. 
And, in reply, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said, Blaib shtein! (Stop!) No more of this! And having touched the ear, he healed him. 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said to the ones having come against him, the Rashei Hakohanim and the Beis Hamikdash shomrim and the Ziknei HaAm, Do you have the chutzpah to come out as against a ganav (thief) with charavot and clubs? 
Yom Yom (Daily) I was with you in the Beis Hamikdash and you did not stretch out your hands against me, but this is your hour and the shlita of choshech (power of evil, sitra ahra). 
And having seized Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, they led him away and brought him into the bais of the Kohen Gadol. And Kefa was following from a distance. 
And some kindled a hadlakah (bonfire) in the middle of the courtyard, and having sat down together, Kefa was sitting in their midst. 
And a certain shifcha, seeing him sitting in the light of the hadlakah (bonfire), staring intently at Kefa, said, And this one was with him. 
But Kefa denied it, saying, I do not have daas of him, isha. 
And after a short while, another, having seen him, said, And you are of them! But Kefa said, Man, I am not! 
And about one hour had passed, and still another was insisting, saying, Beemes (in actuality) this one was with him also, for he also is a Gelili (inhabitant of the Galil)! 
But Kefa said, Ben Adam, I do not have daas what you are saying. And immediately, while Kefa was speaking, a tarnegol crowed. 
And having turned, Adoneinu looked at Kefa, and Kefa was reminded of the dvar of Moshiach Adoneinu when he said to him, Before the tarnegol crows hayom (today) you will make hakhchashah (denial) of me shalosh pe'amim. 
And having gone outside Kefa wept bitterly. 
And the men, the ones having Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach in custody, were ridiculing and beating him. 
And having blindfolded him, they were setting a she'elah in front of him, saying, Give a dvar nevuah, who is the one having given you a klap (blow)? 
And with much other Chillul Hashem gadfanut they were speaking against Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And when boker came, the Ziknei HaAm were gathered together, both the Rashei Hakohanim and the Sofrim, and they led him away to their Sanhedrin, 
Saying, If you are the Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach, tell us. But he said to them, If I say this to you, you will by no means have emunah. 
And if I set a she'elah before you, you will by no means give answer. 
But from now on the Bar Enosh will be YOSHEV LIMIN at the gevurat Hashem. 
And everyone said, Then you are the Ben HaElohim? Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, You are saying that I am. 
And to them they said, Why still do we have need of an eidus (witness)? For we ourselves heard from his peh (mouth)! 
