LUKAS.
Chapter 10.
And after these things, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu gave smichah to shivim (seventy) others and sent them on ahead of him shnayim shnayim (two by two) into every shtetl and place where he was about to arrive. 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach was saying to them, Indeed the Katzir is plentiful, but the poalim of the Katzir are few; therefore, ask the Adon of the Katzir that he might send out poalim into his Katzir. 
Go I send you as kevasim (sheep) into the midst of ze'evim (wolves). 
Do not carry a bag for kesef, nor a schnorrerʼs sack (beggarʼs bag), nor sandals, and, along the derech, dispense with time-consuming Birkat Shalomʼs. 
Into whatever bais you enter, first say, Shalom to this bais. 
And if there is a ben hashalom there, your shalom will rest upon him. Otherwise, on you it will return. 
Remain in the same bais eating and drinking the things with them. For worthy is the poel (worker) of his loin (wages). Do not move from bais to bais. 
And into whichever shtetl you enter and they receive you, eat the okhel (food) being set before you, 
And give refuah (healing) to the cholim (sick people) and say to them, The Malchut Hashem has come near you. 
And into whatever shtetl you enter and they do not receive you, having gone out into the rekhovot (streets) of that shtetl, 
Say, Even the dust from your shtetl, which clings to us, we shake off from our feet as an omen of din (judgment) against you. But have daas of this, that the Malchut Hashem has come near. 
I say to you, that for S'dom in Yom HaHu, it will be more bearable than it will be for that shtetl. 
Woe to you, Korazin, oy to you, Beit-Tzaidah, because if in Tzor and Tzidon had occurred the gevurot that have happened in you, long ago, they, sitting in sackcloth and ashes, would have made teshuva. 
But for Tzor and Tzidon it will be more bearable in the Yom HaDin than for you. 
And you, K'far-Nachum, surely not up to Shomayim will you be exalted? To Gehinnom you will descend! 
The one listening to you listens to me, and the one rejecting you, rejects me. But the one rejecting me, rejects the One who sent me. 
And the Shivim returned with simcha, saying, Adoneinu, even the shedim submit to us b'Shem of you. 
And he said to them, I was seeing HaSatan falling like lightning from Shomayim. 
Hinei I have given to you the koach and the samchut to walk on nechashim (snakes) and akrabim (scorpions), and on all the koach of HaOyev, and nothing may by any means injure you. 
But in this do not have a lev sameach, on account of the ruchot submitting to you, but have lev sameach that your shemot have been inscribed in Shomayim. 
In the same hour Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach was full of simcha by the Ruach Hakodesh. And he said, Baruch Hashem, Avi, Adon HaShomayim vHaAretz, that You concealed these things from those with chochmah and seichel and You revealed them to yeladim. Ken, Avi, for thus it was well pleasing in Your sight. 
Everything was handed over to me by Avi, and no one has daas of HaBen except HaAv. And no one has daas of HaAv except HaBen, and whomever HaBen wishes to reveal Him. 
And, having turned to the talmidim in a yechidus, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Ashrey are the eyes seeing what you see. 
For I say to you that many neviim and melachim wanted to see what you see and they did not see them, and to hear what you hear and they did not hear them. 
And a certain Talmid Chacham, a Baal Torah, stood up, testing Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach, saying, Rabbi, what mitzvah must I do to inherit Chayyei Olam? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to him, In the Torah what has been written? How do you read it? 
And in reply the Baal Torah said, V'AHAVTA ES ADONOI ELOHEICHA B'CHOL LEVAVCHA UVECHOL NAFSHECHA UVECHOL MODECHA and L'REACHA KAMOCHA. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Your answer is frum. Richtik. Do this and you will live. 
But because the Baal Torah wanted to justify himself, to be yitzdak im Hashem(justified with G-d) on the basis of his own zokheh(merit), he said to him, And who is my REA (neighbor)? 
In reply, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said, A certain ish was coming down from Yerushalayim to Yericho, and he encountered shodedim. They stripped him and inflicted a klap, more than one, and they went away and left him half dead. 
It so happened that a certain kohen was coming down by that derech, and, having seen him, he passed by on the other side. 
And likewise also a Levi happened upon the place, but when he came and saw him, he passed by on the other side. 
But a certain Shomroni, traveling along on the derech, came upon him; and when he saw him, he was filled with rachmei shomayim. 
And when this Shomroni approached, he bandaged the manʼs wounds, pouring shemen and yayin over them; and when he had placed him upon his own donkey, he brought the man to a malon and cared for him. 
And on the next day he produced two denarii and gave them to the inn keeper of the malon and said, Take care of him, and whatever you spend additionally, I will take care of, when I return. 
Who of these shalosha seems to you to have become a re'a to the one having fallen among the shodedim? 
And the Baal Torah answered, The one having shown the man rachamim. And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Go and do likewise. 
And while they were on the derech, he entered into a certain shtetl. And a certain isha by name of Marta received him. 
And this isha had an achot named Miryam, who sat down at the feet of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu listening to his dvar. 
But Marta was distracted with much badinen. And having stood by, she said, Adoneinu, is it of no concern to you that my achot has left me alone to serve? Speak, then, to her to help me. 
And in reply Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu said to her, Marta, Marta, you are anxious and worried about many things, 
But one is necessary. For Miryam chose HaTov which will not be taken away from her. 
