ZECHARYAH.
Chapter 2.
Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and hinei four keranot (horns, powers)! 
And I said unto the malach that spoke with me, What are these? And he answered me, These are the keranot which have scattered Yehudah, Yisroel, and Yerushalayim. 
And Hashem showed me arba'ah charashim (four craftsmen). 
Then said I, What come these to do? And he spoke, saying, These are the keranot which have scattered Yehudah, so that no man did lift up his head; but these craftsmen are come to terrify them, to throw down the karnot haGoyim, which lifted up their keren (horn) over Eretz Yehudah to scatter her. 
I lifted up mine eyes again, and looked, and, hinei, a man with a measuring line in his hand! 
Then said I: Whither goest thou? And he said unto me: To measure Yerushalayim, to see what is the breadth thereof, and what is the length thereof. 
And, hinei, the malach that spoke with me went forth, and another malach went out to meet him, 
And said unto him: Run, speak to this na'ar (young man) saying: Yerushalayim shall be inhabited like unwalled cities because of the multitude of men and cattle therein; 
For I, saith Hashem, will be unto her a chomat eish (wall of fire) round about, and will be the kavod in the midst of her. 
Come, come, and flee out of the Eretz Tzafon, saith Hashem; for I have scattered you like the Arbah Ruchot HaShomayim, saith Hashem. 
Come, save thyself, O Tziyon, thou that dwellest with the Bat Bavel. 
For thus saith Hashem Tzva'os: After Kavod (Glory) sent me unto the Goyim who plundered you — the one that toucheth you toucheth the apple of His eye — 
Hineni, I will surely raise Mine hand against them, and they shall be plunder to their avadim; and ye shall know that Hashem Tzva'os hath sent me. 
Sing and rejoice, O Bat Tziyon; for, hineni, I will come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith Hashem. 
And Goyim rabbim shall be joined to Hashem in Yom HaHu (that day), and shall be Ami (My People): and I will dwell in the midst of thee, and thou shalt know that Hashem Tzva'os hath sent me unto thee. 
And Hashem shall inherit Yehudah as His chelek in the Admat HaKodesh (Holy Land), and shall choose Yerushalayim again. 
Be silent, Kol Basar, before Hashem; for He has roused Himself from His Ma'on Kadosh (holy habitation). 
