YESHAYAH.
Chapter 35.
The Midbar (desert) and the Tziyyah (dry land) shall be glad over them; and the Aravah shall rejoice, and blossom like the khavatzelet (lily). 
It shall bloom abundantly, and rejoice even with gilat (rejoicing) and rannein (joyous singing); the kavod haLevanon (glory of Lebanon) shall be given unto her (the Aravah), the hadar (majesty) of Carmel and Sharon; they shall see the Kavod Hashem(glory of Hashem), and the Hadar Eloheinu (majesty of our G-d). 
Make ye the weak hands chazak (strong), and steady the birkayim (knees) koshlot (feeble ones knees that give way, i.e., of those of the Golus returning to G-d in Tziyon). 
Say to them that are of a fearful lev, Be strong, fear not; hinei, Eloheichem (your G-d) will come with nakam (vengeance), with Elohim gemul (divine retribution) He will come and save you. 
Then the eyes of the ivvrim (blind people) shall be opened, and the ears of the chereshim (deaf ones) shall be unstopped. 
Then shall the pisei'ach (lame) leap like the deer, and the leshon (tongue) of the illem (the mute, the people unable to utter speech) sing for joy; for in the midbar shall mayim break forth, and streams in the Aravah. 
And the sharav (burning sand) shall become an agam (pool, lake, pond) and the thirsty land, springs of mayim; in the habitation of jackals, where each jackal lay, shall be khatzir (grassland) as well as reeds and gomeh (papyrus, bulrushes). 
And a maslul (highway) shall be there, and a derech (road), and it shall be called The Derech HaKodesh (The Holy Road); the tameh (unclean, impure person see Isa 26:7) shall not pass along it, inasmuch as it shall be for them, that is, the Holech Derech (Walker of the Road, i.e., whoever is the Redeemed Wayfarer on the Derech HaKodesh), even evilim (morally bad foolish people) shall not go astray thereon. 
No aryeh (lion) shall be there, nor any peritz chayyot (ravenous, dangerous, ferocious of wild beasts) shall go up thereon, it shall not be found there; but the Ge'ulim (redeemed people) shall walk there; 
And the Peduyei Hashem(ransomed ones of Hashem) shall return, and come to Tziyon with songs and simchat olam (everlasting joy) upon their heads; they shall obtain sasson (joy) and simchah (gladness), and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. 
