MELACHIM BAIS.
Chapter 20.
In those days was Chizkiyahu (Hezekiah) sick unto mot (death). And HaNavi Yeshayah Ben Amotz came to him, and said unto him, Thus saith Hashem, Set thine bais in order; for thou shalt die, and not live. 
Then he turned his face to the kir (wall), and davened unto Hashem, saying, 
Remember now, Hashem, how I have walked before Thee in emes and with a lev shalem, and have done that which is hatov in Thy sight. And Chizkiyahu (Hezekiah) wept with bekhi gadol (great weeping). 
And it came to pass, before Yeshayah was gone out from the middle courtyard, that the Devar Hashem came to him, saying, 
Shuv (return), and say to Chizkiyahu (Hezekiah) the Nagid Ami, Thus saith Hashem Elohei Dovid Avicha, I have heard thy tefillah, I have seen thy tears; hineni, I will heal thee; on Yom HaShelishi thou shalt go up unto the Beis Hashem. 
And I will add unto thy days fifteen shanah; and I will save thee and this city out of the palm of Melech Ashur (Assyria); and I will defend this city for Mine Own sake, and for the sake of Dovid Avdi. 
And Yeshayah said, Take a develet te'enim. And they took and laid it on the shechin (boil, inflamed spot) and he recovered. 
And Chizkiyahu (Hezekiah) said unto Yeshayah, What shall be the Ot (Sign) that Hashem will heal me, and that I shall go up into the Beis Hashem on the Yom HaShelishi? 
And Yeshayah said, This Ot (Sign) shalt thou have from Hashem, that Hashem will do the thing that He hath spoken: shall the tzel (shadow) go forward eser ma'alot (ten steps), or go backward eser ma'alot? 
And Yechizkiyahu (Chizkiyahu, Hezekiah) answered, It is a simple matter for the tzel to go forward eser ma'alot; no, but let the tzel return backward eser ma'alot. 
And Yeshayah HaNavi cried out unto Hashem; and He brought the tzel (shadow) eser ma'alot backward, by which it had gone on the ma'alot Achaz (sundial of Ahaz). 
At that time Berodakh Baladan Ben Baladan Melech Bavel sent sefarim and a minchah unto Chizkiyahu (Hezekiah); for he had heard that Chizkiyahu had been ill. 
And Chizkiyahu (Hezekiah) paid heed unto them, and showed them kol Bais Nekhotoh (Treasure House), the kesef, and the zahav, and the spices, and the shemen hatov, and all the Bais Keli of his, and all that was found in his otzerot; there was nothing in his Bais (palace), nor in all his memshalet, that Chizkiyahu showed them not. 
Then came Yeshayah HaNavi unto HaMelech Chizkiyahu, and said unto him, What said these anashim? And from whence came they unto thee? And Chizkiyah said, They are come from an eretz rekhokah (a far country), even from Babylon. 
And he said, What have they seen in thine Bais (palace)? And Chizkiyahu answered, All the things that are in mine Bais (palace) have they seen; there is nothing among my otzerot (treasures) that I have not showed them. 
And Yeshayah said unto Chizkiyahu, Hear the Devar Hashem. 
Hinei, the days come, that all that is in thine Bais, and that which Avoteicha have laid up in store unto this day, shall be carried into Babylon; nothing shall be left, saith Hashem. 
And of thy Banim that shall issue from thee, which thou shalt father, shall they take away; and they shall be sarisim in the Heikhal Melech Bavel. 
Then said Chizkiyahu unto Yeshayah, Tov is the Devar Hashem which thou hast spoken. And he said, Is it not good, if shalom and emes be in my days? 
And the rest of the acts of Chizkiyahu, and all his gevurah, and how he made HaBerekhah (the Pool) and the Te'alah (Tunnel), and brought mayim into the city, are they not written in the Sefer Divrei HaYamim of the Melachim of Yehudah? 
And Chizkiyahu slept with his avot; and Menasheh bno reigned in his place. 
