MICHOH.
Chapter 7.
Woe is me! For I am become like a gathering of kayitz (summer fruit), like a gleaning of the vintage; there is no grape cluster to eat, none of the early figs my nefesh desired. 
The chasid has disappeared from ha'aretz; and there is none yashar (upright, straight) among men; they all lie in wait for dahm; they hunt every man his brother with a net. 
That they may do evil with both hands skillfully, the sar and the shofet asketh for a bribe; and hagadol uttereth the evil of his nefesh (soul); so they weave it. 
The best of them is like a brier; the yashar (most upright) is sharper than a thorn hedge; the yom of thy watchmen and thy pekuddah (visitation) cometh; now shall their confusion follow. 
Trust ye not in a re'a, put ye not confidence in an alluf (confidant); keep the doors of thy mouth from her that lieth in thy kheyk (bosom). 
For the ben dishonoureth the av, the bat riseth up against her em, the kallah against her chamot; a manʼs enemies are the men of his own bais. 
Therefore I will look in hope for Hashem; I will wait for Elohei Yishi (the G-d of my Salvation); Elohai (my G-d) will hear me. 
Don't joyously gloat over me, O mine enemy; when I fall, I shall rise; when I sit in choshech, Hashem shall be ohr unto me. 
I will bear the wrath of Hashem, because I have sinned against Him, until He plead my case, and execute mishpat for me; He will bring me forth into the ohr, and I shall behold His tzedakah. 
Then mine enemy shall see it, and bushah (shame) shall cover her which said unto me: Where is Hashem thy G-d? Mine eyes shall behold her; now shall she be trodden down like the mire of the streets. 
In the yom that thy fences are to be built, in Yom HaHu (that Day) shall the chok (prescribed limit, boundary) be far away. 
In that yom also it shall come into your possession from Assyria and the cities of Egypt, even from Egypt to the Euphrates, from yam to yam, and from har to har. 
Notwithstanding ha'aretz shall be desolate because of them that dwell therein, for the fruit of their doings. 
Tend as a shepherd Thy people with Thy staff, the tzon of Thine nachalah, which dwell solitarily in the wood, in the midst of Carmel; let them feed in Bashan and Gil'ad, as in days of old. 
According to the days of thy coming out of Eretz Mitzrayim will I show unto it marvellous things. 
The Goyim shall see and be ashamed at all their might; they shall lay their hand upon their mouth, their ears shall be deaf. 
They shall lick the aphar (dust) like the nachash, like crawlers that crawl on eretz (ground) they will come trembling out of their dens; they shall be afraid of Hashem Eloheinu, and shall turn in fear because of Thee. 
Mee El kamocha (Who is a G-d like unto Thee), removing avon, and passing over peysha of the She'erit of His Nachalah? Hashem retaineth not His anger forever, because He delighteth in chesed. 
He will turn again; He will have compassion upon us; He will subdue avonoteinu (our iniquities); and tashlich (thou wilt cast, throw) all their sins into the depths of the yam. 
Thou wilt give emes to Ya'akov, and chesed to Avraham, as Thou hast sworn unto avoteinu from days of long ago.
