IYOV.
Chapter 9.
Then Iyov answered and said, 
I know it is indeed thus, but how should yitzdak Enosh im El (Man be in the right, justified, before G-d)? 
If he will contend with Him, once of a thousand can Man not answer G-d back. 
G-d is chochom in lev, and mighty in ko'ach; who hath hardened himself to defy Him and remained unhurt? 
Which removeth the harim (mountains), and they know not; which overturneth them in His anger; 
Which shaketh eretz out of its place, and the ammudim thereof tremble; 
Which commandeth the cheres (sun), and it riseth not; and sealeth up the kokhavim; 
Which spreadeth out Shomayim by Himself alone, and treadeth upon the waves of the yam; 
Which maketh the Bear, Orion, and the Pleiades, and the chambers of the constellations on the south side of the heavens; 
Which doeth gedolot past finding out; yea, and nifla'ot (wonders) without number. 
Hen (lo), He passeth by me, and I see Him not; He goeth on also, but I perceive Him not. 
Hinei, He taketh away, who can stop Him? Who will say unto Him, Mah ta'aseh (what are You doing)? 
If Eloah restraineth not His anger, the helpers of Rahab must bow themselves under Him. 
How much less shall I dispute with Him, and choose my devarim with Him? 
Whom, though I were tzaddik (righteous, innocent, in the right), yet would I not answer, but I would make techinnah (supplication, plea for mercy) for my mishpat (right). 
If I had summoned, and He had responded to me, yet would I not believe that He had paid heed unto my kol (voice); 
For He breaketh me in a sa'arah (tempest, storm), and multiplieth my wounds without cause. 
He will not allow me to take my ruach (breath), but filleth me with bitterness. 
If I speak of ko'ach, hinei, He is mighty, and if of mishpat, who can give Him a court summons? 
If etzdak (I am justified, in the right), mine own mouth would condemn me; if I say, I am blameless, He would prove me perverse. 
Though I were blameless, yet would I not know my nefesh; I would despise my life. 
This is one thing; therefore I said it, He destroyeth the tam (blameless) and the rasha (wicked). 
If the shot (scourge) slay suddenly, He laugheth at the melting away in anguish of the nekiyim (innocent ones, the guiltless ones). 
Eretz is given into the yad of the resha; He blindfoldeth the faces of the shofetim (judges) thereof; if not, then, who doeth it? 
Now my yamim are swifter than a runner; they flee away, they see no tovah. 
They slip by like oniyyot (boats) of reed; as the nesher that swoopeth down on the prey. 
If I say, I will forget my si'akh (complaint), I will leave off my heaviness, and comfort myself, 
I am afraid of all my sorrows; I have da'as that Thou wilt not hold me innocent. 
If I be wicked, why then labor I in hevel (vain)? 
If I wash myself with sheleg (snow), and make my hands clean with lye, 
Yet shalt Thou plunge me in the shachat (slime pit), and mine own clothes shall abhor me. 
For He is not an ish, as I am, that I should answer Him, and we should come together in mishpat (in the court). 
Neither is there any mochiach (arbitrator) between us, that might lay his yad upon us both. 
Let Him take His shevet (rod) away from me, and let not His fear terrify me. 
Then would I speak, and not fear Him; but it is not ken (so) with me. 
