BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 20.
Then came the Bnei Yisroel, even the kol HaEdah into the Midbar of Tzin in the first month; and the people abode in Kadesh; and Miryam died there, and was buried there. 
And there was no mayim for the Edah; and they gathered themselves together against Moshe and against Aharon. 
And the people contended with Moshe, and spoke, saying, If only we had died when our brethren died before Hashem! 
And why have ye brought up the Kahal Hashem into this midbar, that we and our livestock should die here? 
And why have ye made us to come up out of Mitzrayim, to bring us in unto this evil place? It is no place of zera (grain), or of te'enah (fig), or of gefen (grapevine), or of pomegranates; neither is there any mayim to drink. 
And Moshe and Aharon went from the presence of the Kahal unto the entrance of the Ohel Mo'ed, and they fell upon their faces; and the kavod Hashem appeared unto them. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
Take the rod and gather thou the Edah together, thou and Aharon thy brother, and speak ye unto the rock before their eyes; and it shall give forth its mayim, and thou shalt bring forth to them mayim out of the rock; so thou shalt give the Edah and their beasts drink. 
And Moshe took the rod from before Hashem, just as He commanded him. 
And Moshe and Aharon gathered the Kahal together before the rock, and he said unto them, Hear now, ye morim (rebels, contentious ones); must we fetch you mayim out of this rock? 
And Moshe lifted up his hand, and with his rod he struck the rock twice; and the mayim came out abundantly, and the Edah drank, and their beasts also. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe and Aharon, Because ye believed Me not, to honor Me as kadosh in the eyes of the Bnei Yisroel, therefore ye shall not bring this Kahal into HaAretz which I have given them. 
These were the Waters of Merivah (Quarreling); because the Bnei Yisroel quarreled with Hashem, and He showed Himself kadosh among them. 
And Moshe sent messengers from Kadesh unto the melech of Edom, Thus saith thy brother Yisroel, Thou knowest all the hardship that hath befallen us: 
How Avoteinu went down into Mitzrayim, and we have dwelt in Mitzrayim a long time; and the Egyptians did evil to us, and Avoteinu; 
And when we cried unto Hashem, He heard our voice, and sent a malach, and hath brought us forth out of Mitzrayim; and, hinei, we are in Kadesh, a town in the edge of thy border; 
Let us pass, please, through thy country; we will not pass through the fields, or through the kerem (vineyards), neither will we drink of the mayim of the wells; we will go by the Derech HaMelech; we will not turn to the right hand nor to the left until we have passed through thy territory. 
And Edom said unto him, Thou shalt not pass through me, lest I come out against thee with the cherev. 
And the Bnei Yisroel said unto him, We will go by the main road; and if I and my livestock drink of thy mayim, then I will pay for it; I will only, without doing anything else, pass through on my feet. 
And he said, Thou shalt not go through. And Edom came out against him with a large army, and with a yad chazakah. 
Thus Edom refused to give Yisroel passage through his border; wherefore Yisroel turned away from him. 
And the Bnei Yisroel, even Kol HaEdah, journeyed from Kadesh, and came unto Mt Hor. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe and Aharon in Mt Hor, by the border of Eretz Edom, saying, 
Aharon shall be gathered unto his people; for he shall not enter into HaAretz which I have given unto the Bnei Yisroel, because ye rebelled against My word at the Waters of Merivah. 
Take Aharon and El'azar bno, and bring them up unto Mt Hor; 
And strip Aharon of his garments, and put them upon El'azar bno; and Aharon shall be gathered unto his people, and shall die there. 
And Moshe did as Hashem commanded; and they went up into Mt Hor in the sight of Kol HaEdah. 
And Moshe stripped Aharon of his garments, and put them upon El'azar bno; and Aharon died there on the top of the mount; and Moshe and El'azar came down from the mount. 
And when Kol HaEdah saw that Aharon was dead, they mourned for Aharon shloshim yom, even Kol Bais Yisroel. 
