MATTITYAHU.
Chapter 15.
Then Perushim and Sofrim (rabbonim) from Yerushalayim approach Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, saying, 
Why do your talmidim transgress the Masoret HaZekenim (the Tradition of the Elders)? For they do not do the netilat yadayim before meals. 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, in reply to them, said, Why do also you transgress the mitzvat Hashem for the sake of your own masoros? 
For Hashem has said, KABED ES AVICHA VES IMMECHA(honor your father and your mother), and MKALEL AVIV VIMMO MOT YUMAT(the one cursing his father and mother, to die he must die). 
But you say, Whoever says to his abba or his em, whatever support you might have had from me, it is a gift. 
By no means does anyone who says this honor his abba or em. And you nullify the Dvar Hashem on account of your masoros. 
You tzevuim, well did Yeshayah give a dvar hanevuah concerning you, saying, 
YAAN KI NIGASH HAAM HAZEH BEFIV UVISHFATAV KI-BDUNI VLIBO RICHAK MIMENI, (This people with their lips honor me, but their heart is far away from me), 
VATEHI YIRATAM OTI MITZVAT ANASHIM MELUMADAH(and in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the mitzvot of mere men). 
And having summoned the multitude, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Listen and understand! 
It is not the thing entering into the mouth that makes the man tameh (unclean), but the thing going out from the mouth, this makes the man tameh. 
Then Moshiachʼs talmidim approached and say to him, Do you know that the Perushim took offense when they heard this dvar? 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, in reply, said, Every plant which Avi sh'ba'Shomayim did not plant will be uprooted. 
Leave them. They are blind morei derech (guides, teachers) of the blind. And if the ivver (blind man) leads the ivrim (blind), both will fall into a pit. 
And Kefa said in reply to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Explain to us the mashal. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Are you still devoid of binah (understanding)? 
Do you not have daas that everything which enters into the mouth goes into the stomach and passes into a latrine? 
But the things coming out from the mouth come out from the lev (heart), which makes tameh. 
For out of the lev comes evil machshavot (thoughts): retzichot (murders), niufim (adulteries), zenunim (fornications), genevot (thefts), eduyot sheker (false testimonies), giddufim (revilements). 
These are the things making the man tameh, but eating with hands lacking the netilat yadayim (ritual of the washing of the hands), this does not make the man tameh. 
And having gone from that place, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach withdrew into the districts of Tzor and Tzidon. 
And a woman from Kena'an came out from those regions, and was shouting, Have mercy on me, Adoni, Ben Dovid! My bat is in torment possessed by shedim. 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach did not answer her a word. And Moshiachʼs talmidim having approached, were asking him, saying, Send her away; she shouts after us. 
But, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said in reply, I was not sent except to the Seh Oveid Beis Yisroel (the Lost Sheep of the House of Israel). 
But she came and fell down before him, saying, Adoni, azreini (L-rd, help me). 
But, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said in reply, It is not good to take the lechem of the Banim and throw it to the kelevim (dogs). 
But she said, Ken, Adoni, but even the kelevim eat the crumbs falling from the tish (table) of their masters. 
Then, in reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to her, O woman, great is your emunah. Let it be done for you as you wish. And the bat (daughter) of her was given refuah (healing) at that very hour. 
And having passed over from that place, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach came beside Lake Kinneret, and having gone up the mountain, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was sitting there. 
And great multitudes approached Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, having with them pisechim (lame), ivrim (blind), the crippled, the mute, and many others, and they laid them at Moshiachʼs feet, and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach gave the cholim (sick persons) refuah (healing). 
The result was that the multitude was astounded, witnessing mute people speaking, cripples made whole, the pisechim (lame) walking, and the ivrim (blind people) seeing, and they gave kavod to Elohei Yisroel. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, having summoned his talmidim, said, I have rachmei shomayim for the multitudes, for already shloshah yamim (three days) they remain with me and they do not have anything they may eat, and I do not want to send them away famished, lest they might faint on the way. 
And Moshiachʼs talmidim say to him, From where bamidbar (in the wilderness) is there enough lechem for us to feed such a vast multitude? 
And he says to them, How much lechem, how many loaves do you have? And they said, Sheva, and a few dagim. 
And when Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach gave the command for the multitude to recline on the ground, 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach took the loaves numbering sheva and the dagim, and, making a bracha, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach offered the betziat halechem (the breaking of the bread) and served them to the talmidim, and Moshiachʼs talmidim served them to the multitudes. 
And everyone ate and they were satisfied, and the Rebbeʼs farbrengen shirayim were numbering sheva baskets full. 
And the ones eating were arbaat elafim (four thousand) men, not counting nashim and yeladim. 
And having sent away the multitudes, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach embarked in the sirah (boat), and came to the region of Magadan. 
