IYOV.
Chapter 20.
Then answered Tzophar the Na'amati, and said, 
Therefore do my thoughts cause me to answer, and ba'avur (because of this) I make haste. 
I hear the musar that insults me, and the ruach of my understanding causeth me to answer. 
Knowest thou not this of old, since adam was placed upon earth, 
That the triumphing of the resha'im is short, and the simchat chanef (joy of the hypocrite) but for a moment? 
Though his excellency mount up to Shomayim, and his rosh reach unto the clouds; 
Yet he shall perish lanetzach (forever) like his own dung; they which have seen him shall say, Where is he? 
He shall fly away as a chalom, and shall not be found; yea, he shall be chased away as a chezyon lailah. 
The ayin also which saw him shall see him no more; neither shall his makom any more behold him. 
His banim shall seek the favor of the poor, and his hands shall restore their goods. 
His atzmot are full of youthful vigor, which shall lie down with him in the aphar. 
Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under his leshon; 
Though he savor it, and forsake it not, but keep it still betoch (within) his mouth; 
Yet his lechem in his stomach is turned sour; it is the venom of vipers within him. 
He hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again; El shall drive them out of his beten. 
He shall suck the venom of asps; the viperʼs leshon shall slay him. 
He shall not see the rivers, the floods, the brooks of devash and khemah (butter, curds). 
That which he labored for shall he give back, and shall not swallow it down; he shall not rejoice according to his chayil temurah (business profit). 
Because he hath oppressed and hath forsaken the destitute; because he hath violently seized a bais which he built not; 
Surely he knew no quiet in his beten; he shall not save anything which he desired. 
There shall none of his ochel be left; therefore his posterity will not endure. 
In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in distress; kol yad of misery shall come upon him. 
When he is about to fill his beten, He shall cast the charon af (fury of His wrath) upon him, and shall rain it upon him while he is eating. 
He shall flee from the weapon of barzel (iron), and the keshet of bronze shall strike him through. 
It is drawn, and cometh out of their body; yea, the glittering point cometh out of his gall; emim (terrors of death) are upon them. 
Kol choshech is reserved for his treasures; an eish not fanned shall consume him; it shall go ill with him that is left in his ohel. 
Shomayim shall reveal his iniquity; and eretz shall rise up against him. 
The increase of his bais shall depart, and his goods shall flow away in G-dʼs Yom Af. 
This is the chelek of an adam rasha from Elohim, and the nachalah decreed unto him by El (G-d). 
