IYOV.
Chapter 40.
Moreover Hashem answered Iyov, and said, 
Shall he that contendeth with Shaddai correct him? The mokhiach Eloah (rebuker of G-d), let him answer it. 
Then Iyov answered Hashem, and said, 
See, I am vile; what shall I answer Thee? I will lay mine yad upon my mouth. 
Once have I spoken, but I will not answer; yea, shtayim (twice), but I will proceed no further. 
Then answered Hashem unto Iyov out of the whirlwind, and said, 
Gird up thy loins now like a gever. I will question thee, and thou shall answer Me. 
Wilt thou also annul My mishpat (justice)? Wilt thou condemn Me, that thou mayest be justified? 
Hast thou a zero'a like El? Or canst thou thunder with a kol (voice) like Him? 
Adorn thyself now with majesty and excellency; and array thyself with hod (glory) and hadar (splendor). 
Unleash thy evrot af (furious wrath); and behold every one that is proud, and bring him low. 
Look on every one that is proud, and humble him, and tread down the resha'im in their place. 
Bury them in the aphar together; shroud their faces in the crypt. 
Then odecha (will I confess, admit unto thee) that thine own right hand can save thee. 
Hinei now behemot (hippopotamus), which I made along with thee; he eateth grass like an ox. 
Hinei now, his koach is in his loins, and his force is in the sinews of his beten (belly). 
He moveth his zanav (tail) like a cedar branch; the sinews of his thighs are firmly interwoven. 
His atzmot are like tubes of nechoshet; his limbs are like rods of barzel (iron). 
He is the reshit (firstling) of the ways of El; He, his Maker, can approach it with His cherev. 
Surely the harim bring forth food for him, where all the wild beasts play. 
He lieth under the shade of lotus plants, beseter (in the covert) of the reed and marsh. 
The lotus plants cover him with their shadow; the willows by the nakhal (brook, stream) surround him. 
See, when the nahar (river) rages, he is not alarmed; he is confident, though Yarden breaketh forth upon his mouth. 
While he is looking can one capture him? With mokeshim (hooks) can one pierce his nose? 
Canst thou draw out Leviathan with a khakah (fishhook)? Or tie down his leshon with a cord? 
Canst thou put a hook into his af (nose)? Or bore his jaw through with a barb? 
Will he make many tachanunim unto thee? Will he speak soft words unto thee? 
Will he make a brit (covenant) with thee? Wilt thou take him for an eved olam? 
Wilt thou play with him as with a pet bird? Or wilt thou leash him for thy na'arot (maidens)? 
Shall traders barter for him? Shall they divide him among the Kena'anim (Canaanites, merchants)? 
Canst thou fill his ohr (skin) with harpoons? Or his head with fishing spears? 
Lay thine hand upon him; remember the milchamah. Thou wilt not do it more. 
