TEHILLIM.
Chapter 69.
(For the one directing. Al Shoshanim. Of Dovid) 
Hoshi'eini, O Elohim; for the mayim are come unto my nefesh. 
I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing; I am come into the depths of the mayim, where the floods overflow me. 
I am weary of my crying out; my garon (throat) is dry; mine eyes fail while I wait for Elohai. 
They that have sinas chinom (baseless hatred) toward me are more than the hairs of mine rosh; they that would destroy me, being mine oyevim (enemies) sheker (baselessly) are mighty; then I restored that which I did not steal. 
O Elohim, Thou knowest my folly; and my ashmot (guiltinesses) are not hid from Thee. 
Let not them that wait on Thee, Adonoi Hashem Tzva'os, be ashamed because of me; let not those that seek Thee be disgraced because of me, O Elohei Yisroel. 
Because for Thy sake I have borne cherpah; shame hath covered my face. 
I am become a stranger unto my achim, and a nochri (foreigner) unto the bnei immi (sons of my mother). 
For kinas Beitcha (zeal for Thy House) hath consumed me; and the cherpot of them that scorned Thee are fallen upon me. 
When I wept, and chastened my nefesh in the tzom (fast), that became my cherpot (reproaches). 
I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a mashal (byword) to them. 
They that sit in the sha'ar (gate) speak against me; and I was the neginot (drinking songs) of the drunkards. 
But as for me, may my tefillah be unto Thee, Hashem, in an et ratzon (acceptable time, time of favor); O Elohim, in the multitude of Thy chesed hear me, in the emes of Thy salvation. 
Save me out of the teet (mire, clay, soil) and let me not sink; let me be saved from them that hate me, and out of the depths of the mayim. 
Let not the floodwaters overflow me, neither let the deep swallow me up, and let not the be'er (pit) shut her mouth upon me. 
Hear me, Hashem, for Thy chesed is tov; turn unto me according to the multitude of Thy rachamim; 
And hide not Thy face from Thy eved; for I am in tzoros. Hear me speedily. 
Draw near unto my nefesh, and make the go'el redemption of it; deliver me because of mine oyevim (enemies). 
Thou hast known the cherpah (scorn) I bear, and my shame, and my dishonor; mine adversaries are all before Thee. 
Reproach hath broken my lev; and I have sickness as unto death; and I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for menachamim (comforters), but I found none. 
They gave me also gall in my food; and in my tzamah (thirst) they gave me chometz (vinegar) to drink. 
Let their shulchan become a pach (snare, trap) before them; and that which should have been for their shlomim (peacefulnesses), let it become a mokesh (trap). 
Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their loins shake tamid. 
Pour out Thine indignation upon them, and let Thy charon af (burning wrath) overtake them. 
Let their habitation be desolate; and let none dwell in their ohalim. 
For they persecute him whom Thou hast struck; and they tell of the makh'ov (pain, grief) of those whom Thou hast wounded. 
Add avon (iniquity) unto their avon; and let them not come into Thy tzedakah. 
Let them be blotted out of the Sefer Chayyim, and not be recorded with the tzaddikim. 
But I am ani (poor) and in pain; let Thy Yeshu'ah (salvation), O Elohim, set me up on high. 
I will praise Shem Elohim b'shir (in song), and will magnify Him with todah (thanksgiving). 
This also shall please Hashem better than shor (ox) or bull that hath keren (horn) and parsah (hoof). 
Those that have anavah (meekness, humility) shall see this, and have simchah; and your lev shall live that seek Elohim. 
For Hashem heareth the evyonim (needy ones, poor), and despiseth not His prisoners. 
Let the Shomayim va'Aretz praise Him, the seas, and every thing that moveth therein. 
For Elohim yoshi'a (will save) Tziyon, and will build the cities of Yehudah; that they may dwell there, and have it in possession. 
The zera also of His avadim shall inherit it; and they that love Shmo shall dwell therein. 
