Moshiachʼs Letter through the Shliach Sha'ul to the Brit Chadasha Kehillah in Corinth (II).
Chapter 1.
From Sha'ul, a Shliach of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua birtzon Hashem(by the will of G-d), and Timotiyos, the Ach b'Moshiach; To the Kehillah (Congregation) of Hashem existing in Corinth, with all the Kedoshim throughout Achaia. 
Chen v'Chesed Hashem to you and shalom from Elohim Avinu and Adoneinu Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
Baruch hu Hashem Elohim Avi of Adoneinu Yehoshua HaMoshiach, Avi HaRachamim vaElohei kol nechamah (comfort), 
The one giving us chizzuk (strengthening) with respect to all our tzoros so as to enable us to give chizzuk to the ones experiencing tzoros, and that through the nechamah (comfort) by which we ourselves are comforted by Hashem. 
This is so because as the Chevlei Moshiach (birth pangs of Moshiach) abound to us, so through Moshiach abounds also our nechamah. 
Now if we are experiencing tzoros, it is for your chizzuk (strengthening) and Yeshu'at Eloheinu; or if we are being given nechamah (comfort), it is for your nechamah that is producing in you the chozek (strength) of savlanut (patience) for the endurance of the tzoros which we also suffer. 
And our tikvah (hope) for you is well-founded, for we have da'as that as you have deveykus (cleaving to) the Chevlei Moshiach, so also you will have deveykus to the nechamah. 
For we do not want you to lack da'as, Achim b'Moshiach, as to the tzoros and tribulation that came upon us in Asia, that utterly beyond our strength we were burdened, causing us to come to a feeling of ye'ush (despair) even of being able to stay alive. 
But we ourselves have had the gezar din (verdict) of mishpat mavet (a death sentence) in ourselves so that we should not have emunah (faith) in ourselves but in Hashem, Mechayyei Mesim (Who Revivest the Dead). 
The same G-d out of so great a Mavet delivered us and will continue to deliver us. We have set tikvateinu (our hope) that he will yet deliver us, 
As you also labor together for us by techinnah (supplication), so that the “Modeh Ani” for us will be said by the many for the matanah (gift) granted us through the tefillos of the many. 
For our glorying is in this: the edut (testimony) of our matzpun (conscience) is that without remiyah (guile, fraud, deceit) and with lev tahor(pure heart ), with the sincerity of Hashem and not in the “chochmah” of the basar but in the Chen v'Chesed of Hashem, we conducted ourselves in the Olam Hazeh, and more especially toward you. 
For we write nothing so shver (complex) to you that you cannot read and have binah (understanding), and I have tikvah that you will have da'as shlemah until HaKetz, 
As you have already had da'as of us in part, as also we are your kavod, even as also you are ours in the Yom Hashem of Adoneinu Yehoshua. 
And with this bitachon (confidence) I planned previously to come to you, that a second benefit you might have. 
It was my cheshbon (plan) to visit you by way of Macedonia and again from Macedonia to come to you, and by you to be sent on to Yehudah (Judea). 
This was my matarah (aim, goal); surely then I did not act with vacillation? Or when I make plans, do I have a cheshbon according to the basar, ready with “Ken, Ken!” and then, “Lo! Lo!” 
Al emunat Hashem(in the faithfulness of G-d), our dvar to you has not been “Ken” and “Lo.” 
For the Zun fun der Oybershter, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua, the One having been proclaimed among you by us, by Silvanus (Sila) and Timotiyos and me, was not a “Ken and Lo”; but in Him it has always been “Ken.” 
For in Moshiach every one of Hashemʼs havtachot (promises) is a “Ken.” For this reason it is b'Shem Moshiach that we say the “Omein” to the kavod of Hashem. 
But it is Hashem who establishes us with you in Moshiach and has given us the mishchah(anointing), 
Having put his chotam on us and having given the eravon (pledge) of the Ruach Hakodesh in our levavot(hearts). 
Now, I call upon Hashem as eidus (witness) against my nefesh, my neshamah (soul), that it was to spare you that I did not come again to Corinth. 
Not that we play the gontser macher to domineer over your emunah (faith), but we are fellow po'alim for your simcha, for by emunah you stand. 
