Ezra.
Chapter 1.
Now in the first year of Koresh Melech Paras (Persia), that the Devar Hashem by the mouth of Yirmeyah might be fulfilled, Hashem stirred up the ruach of Koresh Melech Paras (Persia), so that he made a proclamation throughout all his Malchut, and put it also in writing, saying, 
Thus saith Koresh Melech Paras (Persia), Hashem Elohei HaShomayim hath given me all the kingdoms of ha'aretz; and he hath charged me to build him Beis at Yerushalayim, which is in Yehudah. 
Who is there among you of all His people, Elohav be with him, let him go up to Yerushalayim, which is in Yehudah, and build the Beis Hashem Elohei Yisroel, (He is HaElohim) which is in Yerushalayim. 
And whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth, let the men of his place help him with kesef, and with zahav, and with goods, and with livestock, beside the nedavah (freewill offering) for the Beis HaElohim that is in Yerushalayim. 
Then rose up the chief of the avot of Yehudah and Binyamin, and the kohanim, and the Levi'im, with all them whose ruach HaElohim had stirred up, to go up to build the Beis Hashem which is in Yerushalayim. 
And all they that were about them did strengthen their hands with vessels of kesef, with zahav, with goods, and with livestock, and with precious things, in addition to all their nedavot (freewill offerings). 
Also HaMelech Koresh brought forth the vessels of the Beis Hashem, which Nevukhadnetzar had carried off out of Yerushalayim, and had put them in the bais (temple) of his g-ds; 
Even those did Koresh Melech Paras (Persia) bring forth by the hand of Mitredat the treasurer, and counted them unto Sheshbatzar, the Nasi of Yehudah. 
And this is the number of them; thirty basins of zahav, a thousand basins of kesef, nine and twenty knives, 
Thirty bowls of zahav, kesef basins of a second kind four hundred and ten, and other vessels one thousand. 
All the vessels of zahav and of kesef were five thousand and four hundred. All these did Sheshbatzar bring up with them of the Golus that were brought up from Bavel unto Yerushalayim. 
