1 Corinthians.
Chapter 10.
I do not want you to be without da'as, Achim b'Moshiach, that Avoteinu all were under the anan(cloud) and passed through the sea, 
And all into Moshe Rabbenu were given tevilah in the anan (cloud) and in the sea, 
And all of the same spiritual okhel (food) ate, 
And all of the same spiritual drink drank, for they were drinking from a spiritual TZUR following them, and that TZUR was Moshiach. 
But Hashem was not pleased with most of them, for they were strewn about in the desert, VAYISHCHATEM BAMIDBAR (then He slaughtered them in the desert). 
Now these things occurred as moftim (examples) for us, in order that we would not crave what is ra'ah as they did. 
Neither should you become ovdei elilim (idolaters), as some of them did, as it has been written, “And the people sat to eat and to drink and they got up to revel.” 
Neither should we commit zenut as some of them committed zenut and fell in one day twenty-three thousand. 
Neither let us tempt Moshiach, as some of them put Moshiach to the test, and by nechashim (serpents) were being destroyed. 
Neither should we murmur and grumble even as some of them VAYILONU (and they murmured) and they were destroyed by the destroyer. 
Now, these things happened to those ones as moftim (examples), but it was written for our admonition, to whom the Kitzei HaOlamim has come. 
So then the one that presupposes that he stands, let him take care lest he fall. 
No nissayon (temptation) has overtaken you, except that which is common to Bnei Adam, but, Hashem is ne'eman (faithful), who will not let you to be brought into nissayon beyond what you are able, but will make with the nissayon also the derech Tzaddikim as a way out for you to be able to endure. 
Therefore, my chaverim, flee from avodah zarah. 
I speak as to thinking men; you judge what I say. 
The Kos HaBracha (Cup of Blessing) over which we say the Bracha, is it not a Mizbe'ach sharing and deveykus participation in the Korban Pesach death and kapporah of Moshiach? The matzoh which we break, is this not a sharing and a deveykus participation in the Guf HaMoshiach? 
Because the matzoh is echad, we, many as we are, are one body, one new humanity, for we all partake of the matzoh echad. 
Observe Yisroel according to the basar. Are not the ones eating the korbanot (sacrifices) partakers of the Mizbe'ach(altar)? 
What then am I saying? That a sacrifice to an elil (idol) is anything or that an idol is anything? 
No, the things which they sacrifice, YIZB'CHU LASHEDIM LO ELOHIM (They sacrificed to demons which were not G-d). Now I do not want you to become sharers with the shedim (demons). 
You are not able to drink from the Kos of Hashem and also from the Kos HaShedim; you are not able to partake of the shulchan of Hashem and the shulchan of shedim (demons). 
Or is it that you would move Hashem to kinah (jealousy)? We don't think we are stronger than He, do we? 
“All things are lawful?” But not all things are beneficial; “All things are lawful?” But not all things edify. 
Let no one seek his own benefit but the benefit of the other. 
Everything being sold in a meat market eat without raising qualms of matzpun (conscience). 
For LAHASHEM HA'ARETZ UMELOAH (The earth is the L-rdʼs and the fullness thereof). 
If anyone of the Apikorosim invites you and you want to go, eat everything being set before you without raising qualms of matzpun (conscience). 
But if anyone should say to you, “Zeh nizbach l'elil!” (This is sacrificed to an idol!), do not eat out of consideration for that man who informed you and because of matzpun (conscience). 
But I speak not about your matzpun but about the matzpun of the other man, for why is my cherut (freedom) brought into mishpat (judgment) by anotherʼs matzpun (conscience)? 
If I partake with Birkat Hamazon (grace after meals), why am I blamed for what I give todah (thanks)? 
Whether, therefore, you eat or you drink or whatever you do, do all things to the kavod (glory) of Hashem. 
Be without michshol both to Yehudim and to Yevanim and to the Kehillah of Hashem, 
even as I also please Bnei Adam in all things, not seeking my own advantage but that of the many, that they may be brought to Yeshu'at Eloheinu. 
