2 Corinthians.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, since it is by the chesed of Hashem that we have this Sherut avodas kodesh (ministry), we are undaunted. 
But we renounced the hidden things of bushah (shame), not going about with remiyah (deceit) nor falsifying the dvar Hashem. Rather by the manifestation of HaEmes we present ourselves to every manʼs matzpun in the sight of Hashem. 
But if indeed our Besuras HaGeulah is nistar (hidden), it is nistar among the ones perishing, 
In whose case the g-d of the Olam Hazeh blinded the minds of the ones without emunah, so the illumination of the Besuras HaGeulah of the kavod of Moshiach, who is the demut of Hashem, would not shine on them. 
For we preach not ourselves but Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua and ourselves as your avadim (servants) for Yehoshuaʼs sake. 
Because Hashem is the One who said, “Let Ohr shine out of choshech” who shone in our levavot for an illumination of the da'as of the kavod of Hashem in the face of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
Now we have this otzar (treasure) in earthen vessels that the excellence of the ko'ach may be of Hashem and not of us. 
Being oppressed on every side but not being crushed, being perplexed but not in ye'ush (despair, atzvut), 
Being persecuted but not forsaken, being cast down but not destroyed, 
Always bearing about the dying of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach in my basar that also the Chayyim of Moshiach in geviyyateinu might be manifested. 
For always we, the ones living, are being given over to mavet because of Moshiach that also the Chayyim of Moshiach may be manifested in our mortal basar. 
So then Mavet works in us but Chayyim in you. 
And having the same Ruach Hakodesh of emunah that is in accordance with the Kitvei Hakodesh, HE'EMANITI KI ADABER(I believed, therefore I speak), we both believed and therefore we speak, 
Having da'as that the One who made to stand up alive Adoneinu Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua will make us also with Yehoshua stand up alive and will present us with you. 
For all things are because of you that the Chen v'Chesed Hashem, having increased through the many, may increase the hodayah (thanksgiving) to the kavod of Hashem. 
Therefore we are undaunted and do not lose chozek (strength). For, indeed, even if our outward man is becoming old and atrophied, yet our inward man is yom yom being renewed. 
For our present momentary tzoros is preparing us for an eternal weight of kavod (glory) utterly beyond measure, 
While we continue to look not at the visible things but the invisible; for the things visible are zemanniyim (temporary) but the things invisible are for l'olamim. 
