MATTITYAHU.
Chapter 13.
On that day, having gone out of the bais, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach sat beside the lake. 
And many multitudes gathered together to him so that he got into a sirah (boat) to sit down, and the entire multitude stood along the shore. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach told them many things in meshalim (parables), saying Hinei! The Sower went out to sow. 
And while he sowed, on the one hand, this fell along the road, and the birds having come, devoured them. 
And others fell upon the rocky places, where there is not much soil, and immediately it sprouts on account of the lack of the soilʼs depth. 
And when the shemesh (sun) arose, the zera (seed) was scorched, and because it did not have a root, it withered. 
And others fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them. 
But others fell on the adamah tovah (good ground), and they yielded fruit: the one, one hundred, the other, sixty, the other, thirty. 
The one having oznayim (spiritual ears), let him hear! 
And, approaching, the talmidim said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Why in meshalim (parables) are you speaking to them? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach answered them, Because to you it has been granted to have daas of the razim (mysteries) of the Malchut HaShomayim, but to those it has not been granted. 
For whoever has, will be given to him, and he will have an abundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him. 
For this reason in meshalim I am speaking to them, for while seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they have binah (understanding). 
And in them is fulfilled the nevuah (prophecy) of Yeshayah HaNavi, saying, SHIMU SHAMOA VAL TAVINU UREU RAO VAL TEIDAU (In hearing you will hear and by no means understand, and seeing you will see and by no means perceive). 
HASHMEIN LEV HAAM HAZEH VAZNAV HACHBEID VEINAV HASHA, PEN YIREH VEINAV UVEAZNAV YISHMAH ULEVAVO YAVIN, VSHAV NRAFAH LOH.(For the heart of this people has been made dull, and their ears are hard of hearing, and their eyes are shut, lest they see with the their eyes and with their ears they hear, and with the lev (heart) they understand and they turn and I will give them refuah healing). 
But ashrey are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. 
For truly I say to you that many Neviim and tzaddikim desired to see what you see, and they did not see, and to hear what you hear, and they did not hear it. 
You, therefore, listen to the mashal of the sower. 
When anyone hears the Dvar HaMalchut and does not have binah, HaRah (the Evil one) comes and seizes that which was sown in his lev (heart). This is the zera (seed) sown along the path. 
And the zera sown upon the rocky places is the person listening to the Dvar Hashem and immediately with simcha receives it. 
Yet he has no root in himself but is short-lived, and when ES TZARAH comes or persecution on account of the Dvar Hashem, immediately he ceases being a maamin Meshichi (Messianic believer) and becomes meshummad (apostate), falling away and giving up the faith. 
And the sown among the thorns is the one hearing the dvar (word), and the rogez HaOlam Hazeh(the anxiety of this age) and the mirmah (deceit) of riches, choke the Dvar Hashem and it becomes unfruitful. 
And the zera sown upon the adamah tovah (the good ground), this is the one who hears the Dvar Hashem and, understanding, indeed bears pri and, one produces a hundred, the other sixty, the other thirty. 
Another mashal Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach placed before them, saying, The Malchut HaShomayim is like a man sowing zera tov (good seed) in his field. 
But while men slept, his oyev (enemy) came and oversowed weeds in between the wheat and went away. 
But when the wheat sprouted and produced pri, then the weeds also appeared. 
So the servants of the Baal Bayit said to him, Adoneinu, did you not sow zera tov (good seed) in your field? How then does it have weeds? 
And he said to them, An oyev did this. So the servants say to him, Do you want us to go and pull them all? 
But he says, No, lest gathering the weeds you should uproot the wheat together with them. 
Permit both to grow together until the Katzir (harvest); and in time of the Katzir, I will say to the kotzerim, Collect first the weeds, and bind them into bundles to burn them. But the wheat gather into my storehouse. 
Another mashal Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach placed before them, saying, The Malchut HaShomayim is like a mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field. 
This that is indeed less than all the zeraim (seeds), but when it grows, it is larger than the garden vegetables and it becomes an etz (tree), so that the OPH HASHOMAYIM come and dwell in its branches. 
Another mashal Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach spoke to them. The Malchut HaShomayim is like seor (leaven), which having taken, a woman hid in three satas of wheat flour until the whole was leavened. 
All these things Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach spoke in meshalim to the multitudes. And apart from meshalim Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach did not speak to them: 
So that might be fulfilled what was spoken through the Navi, saying, EFTCHA VMASHAL PI AVIAH CHIDOT (I will open my mouth with parables, I will utter things having been hidden) from the foundation of the world (Ps 78:2). 
Then having sent away the multitudes, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach came into the bais (house). And Moshiachʼs talmidim approached him, saying, Explain to us the mashal of the weeds of the field. 
And answering, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, The Sower of the zera tov is the Bar Enosh (Moshiach). 
The field is HaOlam Hazeh. And the zera tov, the good seed, these are the Bnei HaMalchut, and the weeds, these are the bnei HaRah(sons of the Evil one). 
And the Oyev (the Enemy) sowing them is HaSatan. And the Katzir (Harvest), this is HaKetz HaOlam (the end of the age). And the kotzerim (reapers, harvesters) are malachim (angels). 
As the weeds are pulled up and gathered and are consumed with Eish (Fire), so also it will be at the Ketz HaOlam. 
The Bar Enosh will send forth his malachim, and they will pull up and gather out of the Moshiachʼs Malchut all the things making meshummad (apostate) and the ones who are without gezetz (law) and antinomian. 
And Moshiachʼs malachim will throw them into the furnace of Eish; there will be weeping and grinding of teeth. 
Then the tzaddikim will shine as the shemesh (sun) in the Malchut of their Father. The one having oznayim (spiritual ears), let him hear. 
The Malchut HaShomayim is like otzar (treasure) hidden in the field, which, having found, a man hid. And from the simcha he experienced, he goes away and sells everything he has and buys that field. 
Again, the Malchut HaShomayim is like a merchant searching for fine pearls. 
And having found one precious peninah (pearl), he went away and liquidated everything he had and acquired it. 
Again, the Malchut HaShomayim is like a reshet (net) having been cast into the lake, a reshet collecting and gathering dagim (fish) of all descriptions, 
which, when this reshet (net) was filled, they hoisted it upon the shore, sat down, collected the tov (good) into a creel, and the rah (evil), they threw out. 
Thus it will be at HaKetz HaOlam Hazeh (The End of This World). The malachim will go out and they will separate the resha'im from among the tzaddikim. 
And they will throw the resha'im into the furnace of Eish. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
Did you have binah of all these things? They say to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Ken. 
So Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Therefore, every sofer (scribe, torah teacher, rabbi) who becomes a talmid of the Malchut HaShomayim is like a man a Baal Bayit, who takes out of his otzar (treasure), chadashot (new things) and also yeshanot (old things). 
And it came about when Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach finished these meshalim, that he went away from there. 
And having come into Moshiachʼs shtetl, he began ministering as a moreh (teacher) in their shul, so that they were amazed and said, From where did this chochmah come to this one, this chochmah and these moftim (miracles, wonders, omens)? 
Is this not the ben hanaggar (the carpenterʼs son)? Is not his Em called Miryam? And are not his achim Ya'akov, Yosef, Shim'on and Yehuda? 
And are not his achayot (sisters) with us? From where, therefore, came to this one all these things? 
And they were taking offense at Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, A Navi (prophet) is not without honor except in his hometown and in his bais. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach did not accomplish in that place many moftim, because of their lack of emunah (faith) and bitachon (trust). 
