MISHLE.
Chapter 11.
A balance of mirmah (dishonesty, deception) is abomination to Hashem, but an even shelemah (perfect stone, just weight) is His ratzon. 
When zadon (pride) cometh, then cometh kalon (shame, disgrace), but with the humble is chochmah. 
The integrity of the yesharim (upright ones) shall guide them, but the deceit of the bogedim (treacherous ones) shall destroy them. 
Hon (riches) profit not in the yom evrah (day of wrath), but tzedakah (righteousness) delivereth from mavet. 
The tzidkat tamim (righteousness of the blameless) shall make his derech straight, but the rasha shall fall by his own evil. 
The tzidkat yesharim shall deliver them, but bogedim (treacherous ones) shall be caught in their own evil desire. 
At the mot adam rasha, his tikveh shall perish, and the expectation of his strong ones perisheth. 
The tzaddik is delivered out of tzoros, but the rashah cometh on to take his place. 
A chanef (hypocrite, man without G-d) with his peh (mouth) destroyeth his re'a, but through da'as (knowledge) shall the tzaddikim be delivered. 
When it goeth well with the tzaddikim, the city rejoiceth, and when the resha'im perish, there is rinnah (joyful shouting). 
By the birkat yesharim the city is exalted, but it is overthrown by the peh (mouth) of the resha'im. 
He that is devoid of lev despiseth his re'a, but an ish tevunot holdeth his peace. 
A bringer of rekhil (gossip), revealeth sod (secrets, confidences), but he that is of a ne'eman ruach concealeth the matter. 
Where no strategic policy is, the nation falls, but in the multitude of yoetz (counsellors, advisors) there is teshu'ah (victory, safety). 
He that is guaranty for a zar shall suffer for it, and he that hateth pledging collateral is secure. 
An eshet chen retaineth kavod (honor, respect), but ruthless men retain osher. 
The ish chesed (merciful man) doeth good to his own nefesh, but he that is cruel harmeth his own self. 
The reshah worketh a wage of sheker, but to him that soweth tzedakah (righteousness) shall be a sachar emes (sure reward). 
As tzedakah (righteousness) leadeth to Chayyim, so he that pursueth ra'ah pursueth it to his own mot (death). 
They that are of a perverse lev are an abomination to Hashem, but such as are upright in their derech are His delight. 
Though yad join in yad, rah shall not go unpunished, but the zera of the tzaddikim shall be delivered. 
As a ring of zahav in the snout of a chazir, so is an isha yafah which is without ta'am (judgment, discretion). 
The ta'avat tzaddikim is only tov, but the tikveh of the resha'im is wrath. 
There is that which scattereth, and yet increaseth more; and there is that which withholdeth more than is yosher, but it leadeth to machsor (want, need, poverty). 
The nefesh berakhah (generous person) shall be made to prosper, and he that watereth shall be refreshed also himself. 
He that withholdeth grain, the people shall curse him, but brocha shall be upon the head of him that selleth it. 
He that diligently seeketh tov procureth ratzon, but he that seeketh ra'ah, it shall come unto him. 
He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; but the tzaddik shall flourish like the green leaf. 
He that troubleth his own bais shall inherit the ruach (wind), and the fool shall be eved to the chacham lev. 
The p'ri tzedek is Etz Chayyim, and he that winneth nefashot is chacham (wise). 
If the tzaddik are recompensed on ha'aretz (the earth), much more the rashah and the choteh (sinner). 
