TEHILLIM.
Chapter 45.
(For the one directing upon Shoshannim, for the Bnei Korach. A Maskil. Shir yedidot a love song) 
My lev is stirred with davar tov; I speak my verses to HaMelech; my leshon (tongue) is the et (pen, stylus) of a sofer mahir (ready scribe, skillful writer). 
Thou art fairer than Bnei Adam; chen (grace, favor) is poured upon Thy sfatayim (lips); therefore Elohim hath blessed Thee l'olam. 
Gird Thy cherev upon Thy side, O Gibbor, with Thy hod (glory, splendor) and Thy hadar (majesty). 
And in Thy hadar (majesty) ride forth victoriously for the sake of emes and anavah and tzedek; and Thy Yamin (Right Hand) shall guide Thee to nora'ot (things of awe). 
Thine khitzim (arrows) are sharp in the lev oyvei HaMelech (in the heart of the Kingʼs enemies); the Amim (nations) fall under Thee. 
Thy kisse (throne), O Elohim, is olam va'ed; the shevet (sceptre) of Thy Malchut is a shevet of uprightness. 
Thou lovest tzedek, and hatest resha; therefore Elohim, Eloheicha, hath anointed Thee with shemen sasson (the oil of gladness) above Thy chaverim. 
All Thy robes smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia; out of ivory heikhalim, stringed instruments have made Thee glad. 
Banot Melachim were among Thy ladies of honor; upon Thy Yamin (Right Hand) is stationed the Shegal (Queen consort, spouse of the reigning monarch) in golden jewelry of Ophir. 
Pay heed, O Bat (daughter), and consider, and incline thine ear; forget also thine own people, and thy Bais Avi; 
Then shall HaMelech be enthralled with thy beauty; since He is thy Adon, hishtachavi lo (bow to Him). 
And the Bat Tzor (Tyre) shall be there with a minchah (gift); even the ashirim (rich ones) among the people shall entreat thy favor. 
The Bat Melech is all glorious within; her clothing is zahav embroidered. 
She shall be brought unto HaMelech in woven apparel; the betulot (virgins), her companions that follow her, shall be brought unto Thee. 
With simchah and gladness shall they be led forth; they shall enter into the Heikhal Melech. 
Instead of thy avot shall be thy sons, whom thou mayest make sarim (princes) in kol ha'aretz. 
I will make Thy Shem to be remembered kol dor vador; therefore shall the Amim (nations) praise Thee l'olam va'ed. 
