MISHLE.
Chapter 14.
Chachmot nashim buildeth her bais, but the foolish pulleth it down with her hands. 
He that walketh in his yashar feareth Hashem, but he that is devious in his drakhim despiseth Him. 
In the peh (mouth) of the fool is a rod of ga'avah (pride), but the sfatayim (lips) of the chachamim shall be shomer over them and preserve them. 
Where no oxen are, the evus (feeding trough) is clean, but much increase is by the ko'ach of the shor (ox). 
An ed emunim will not lie, but an ed sheker will utter lies. 
A scoffer seeketh chochmah, and findeth it not, but da'as cometh easily unto him that is discerning. 
Go from the presence of an ish kesil, when thou perceivest not in him the sfatayim (lips) of da'as (knowledge). 
The chochmah of the prudent is to understand his derech, but the folly of kesilim is mirmah (deceit). 
Fools mock at guilt, but among the yesharim (upright ones) there is ratzon (favor). 
The lev knoweth its own bitterness, and a zar (stranger) doth not share its simchah. 
The bais of the resha'im shall be shmad, but the ohel of the yesharim shall flourish. 
There is a derech (road) which seemeth yashar (right) unto an ish, but the acharit (latter end, future) thereof are the drakhim of mavet. 
Even in sekhok (laughter) the lev is sad, and the acharit (latter end) of that simchah is grief. 
The sug (backslider, faithless one) in lev is filled with his own drakhim (roads), but an ish tov shall be satisfied from above himself. 
The naive believeth every davar, but the prudent looketh with care to his steps. 
A chacham feareth, and departeth from rah, but the kesil throweth off restraint and is arrogantly reckless. 
He that is quick-tempered dealeth folly, and an ish mezimot (a man of crafty schemes) is hated. 
The naive inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with da'as. 
The ra'im will bow before the tov'im, and the resha'im at the she'arim of the tzaddik. 
The poor is hated even by his own re'a (neighbor), but the oisher hath many friends. 
He that despiseth his re'a sinneth, but he that is kind to the anayim (needy ones), happy is he. 
Do they not go astray that plot rah? But chesed and emes shall be to them that plan tov. 
In all hard work there is profit, but idle chatter of the sfatayim (lips) tendeth only to makhsor (poverty, want). 
The ateret chachamim is their riches, but the foolishness of kesilim is folly. 
An ed emes (true witness) saveth nefashot (souls, lives), but a lying witness is a betrayer. 
In the Yirat Hashem is strong confidence, and his banim shall have a place of refuge. 
The Yirat Hashem is a makor chayyim (fountain of life) to turn one away from the snares of mavet. 
In the multitude of people is the glory of a melech, but in the lack of subjects is the ruin of the prince. 
He that is slow to wrath is of rav tevunah (great understanding), but he that is angrily impulsive exalteth folly. 
A lev marpeh (sound mind) is life to the basar, but kinah (envy) is the rottenness of the atzmot (bones). 
He that oppresseth the dal (poor) showeth contempt for his Oseh (Maker), but he that honoreth Him is kind to the evyon (needy). 
The reshah is banished in his ra'ah, but the tzaddik hath refuge in his mot (death). 
In the lev of the discerning reposes chochmah, but that which is in kesilim is made known. 
Tzedakah exalteth a nation, but chattat (sin) is a reproach to any people. 
The ratzon melech (kingʼs favor) is toward an eved maskil (a wise servant), but his wrath is against him that bringeth shame. 
