1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 5.
But concerning the ittim (times) and the zmanim (seasons), Chaverim, you have no need for you to have anything in writing. 
For you yourselves know very well that the Yom Hashem comes like a ganav balailah (thief in the night). 
Whenever they say, “Shalom and Bitachon!” then sudden churban (destruction) will come upon them like the chevlei leydah (birth pangs) of the isha with a baby in her womb. And they can certainly not escape. 
But you, Achim b'Moshiach, are not in choshech that the Yom should overtake you like a ganav. 
For all of you are Bnei Ohr and Bnei Yom; we are not of the Lailah nor of the Choshech. 
Therefore, let us not “sleep” as the rest, but let us keep awake with zililut da'as (sober-mindedness). 
For the ones sleeping sleep balailah, and the ones indulging in shichrut (drunkenness) indulge in shichrut balailah. 
But we, being Bnei Yom, let us be bnei zililut da'as (sons of sober-mindedness), having clothed ourselves with the choshen (breastplate) of emunah and ahavah (agape) and as a KOVAH(helmet) the tikvah of Yeshu'at Eloheynu. 
Because Hashem did not appoint us to charon af (the burning wrath) but to the attainment of Yeshu'at Eloheinu through Adoneinu, Moshiach Yehoshua. 
He is the one who made his histalkus and died on our behalf in order that whether we are living and awake or passed away and sleeping, we may live together with Moshiach. 
Therefore, give chozek (strength) and encouragement, building up one another, as indeed you are doing. 
Now we ask you, Achim b'Moshiach, to have discerning binah (understanding) and discern the ones laboring among you who are your Mashgichim Ruchaniyim (Spiritual Overseers) in Adoneinu. I'm referring to the ones who admonish and warn you. 
And esteem them most exceedingly in ahavah (agape), because of their avodas kodesh work. Let there be shalom bayis (family peace) also in the kehillah. 
And we exhort you, Achim b'Moshiach, warn the batlanim (unemployed or lazy loafers, idlers), comfort the congregant who is pachdan (fainthearted), those who are weak take an interest in, have savlanut (patience) with all. 
See that no one returns ra'ah for ra'ah, but always pursue haTov both for one another and for all. 
Have simcha always. 
Daven unceasingly. 
In everything offer hodayah, for this is the ratzon Hashem in Moshiach Yehoshua for you. 
Do not quench the Ruach Hakodesh. 
Do not reject nevu'ot (prophecies). 
But test kol davar (everything); hold fast to haTov. 
Abstain from every appearance of ra'ah (evil). 
And now Elohei HaShalom wholly set you apart as Kedoshim and may your whole ruach and nefesh and basar be preserved without blame at the Bi'as HaMoshiach Adoneinu Yehoshua. 
Ne'eman (Faithful) is the One who summons you to your kri'ah (calling). He will do it. 
Achim b'Moshiach, offer tefillos also concerning us. 
Say Drishat Shalom to all the Achim b'Moshiach with a neshikat kedoshah. 
By Adoneinu, I solemnly give you the directive that this iggeret hakodesh has to be read to all the Achim b'Moshiach. 
The Chen v'Chesed of Adoneinu, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua, be with you.
