Ephesians.
Chapter 3.
For this cause, I, Sha'ul, the prisoner of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua for you Nations, 
If indeed you heard of the pekudat Hashem of the Chen v'Chesed Hashem having been given to me for you, 
That according to hisgalus (revelation) there was made known to me the sod of the raz, as I wrote before in brief, 
As to which you are able by reading to have binah of my haara (insight) into the Sod HaMoshiach (the Secret of Moshiach), 
Of which in other dorot (generations) was not made known to the Bnei Adam as it has now been made hisgalus (revelation) to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiachʼs Shlichim and Nevi'im HaKedoshim in the Ruach Hakodesh, 
Namely, that the Nations are fellow bnei HaYerushshah (heirs) of the nachalah (allotted inheritance) and joint evarim of HaGuf HaMoshiach and joint partakers of the havtachah (promise) in Moshiach Yehoshua (Yeshua) through the Besuras HaGeulah, 
Of which I became a keli kodesh (minister) according to the matnat Hashem of the Chen v'Chesed of G-d having been bestowed upon me, according to the working of His gevurah (power). 
To me, the less than the least of all Kedoshim, was given this Chen v'Chesed Hashem, to preach to the Nations the unsearchable osher (riches) of Moshiach, 
And to shed light on what is the pekudat Hashem of the Sod that was meOlam nistar (hidden) in Hashem, who created all things, 
In order that the many faceted Chochmat Hashem might be made known now to the rulers and the authorities in Shomayim through the Moshiachʼs Brit Chadasha Kehillah. 
This was in accordance with the tochnit Hashem(purposeful and willed plan of G-d) for the Olamim (Ages), which He implemented in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua Adoneinu, 
In whom we have boldness and HaSha'ar laHashem(gate to approach G-dʼs presence), in bitachon through emunah in Him. 
Therefore, I ask you not to lose chozek concerning my tzoros on your behalf, which is for your kavod. 
For this cause I fall down before Elokim HaAv, 
From whom every mishpochah in Shomayim and on Ha'Aretz is named, 
That Hashem may grant you according to the osher of His kavod to become mightily empowered through His Ruach Hakodesh in the adam hapenimi (inner man); 
So that Moshiach may make His maon (dwelling place, permanent residence, home) in your levavot through emunah, being rooted and grounded in ahavah, 
That you may be able to have binah, together with all the Kedoshim, what is the breadth and length and height and depth, 
And to have da'as of the ahavah of Moshiach, which ahavah surpasses da'as, in order that you may be filled to all the melo (plentitude) of Hashem. 
Now to the One who is able to do exceedingly abundantly, beyond all that we ask or think, according to the ko'ach working in us. 
To Him be kavod in the Brit Chadasha Kehillah and in Moshiach Yehoshua, bekhol hadorot l'Olam va'ed. Omein. 
