YECHEZKEL.
Chapter 41.
Afterward he brought me to the Heikhal, and measured the jambs, six cubits wide on the one side, and six cubits wide on the other side, which was the width of the Ohel. 
And the width of the Petach (Entrance) was ten cubits; and the ketefot (shoulders, sidewalls) of the Petach were five cubits on the one side, and five cubits on the other side; and he measured the depth thereof, forty cubits; and the width, twenty cubits. 
Then he went into the Penimah (the Innermost ), and measured the jamb of the Petach, two cubits; and the Petach, six cubits; and the width of the Petach, sheva (seven) cubits. 
So he measured the depth thereof, twenty cubits; and the width, twenty cubits, along the Heikhal; and he said unto me, This is the Kodesh HaKodashim. 
After he measured the wall of the Beis, six cubits; and the width of every tzela (side chamber, cell), four cubits, around the Beis on every side. 
And the tzela'ot (side chambers, cells) were tzela over tzela, thirty-three in number; and there were ledges on the wall which was of the Beis for the tzela'ot round about, that they might take hold there, but they had not hold in the wall of the Beis. 
And tzela'ot (side chambers, cells) were broader at each story; a ramp spiraled upward by stages around the Beis; therefore the width of the Beis increased as it went upward, so from the lowest to the highest through the middle. 
I saw also the height of the Beis all around; the yesodot (foundations) of the tzela'ot were a full rod of six cubits long. 
The thickness of the wall, which was for the tzela toward the outside, was five cubits; and that which was open was the space at the end of the tzela'ot of the Beis. 
And between the leshakhot was the space the width of twenty cubits around the Beis all around. 
And the petach of the tzela were toward the space that was open, one petach toward the north, and another petach toward the south; and the width of the place that was open was five cubits all around. 
Now the Binyan (building, structure) that was before the Gizrah (separation, separating courtyard, restricted space, behind the Beis HaMikdash) at the end toward the west was seventy cubits wide; and the wall of the Binyan was five cubits thick all around, and the length thereof ninety cubits. 
So he measured the Beis, a hundred cubits long; and the Gizrah, and the Binyan, with the walls thereof, a hundred cubits long; 
Also the width of the face of the Beis, and of the Gizrah toward the east, a hundred cubits. 
And he measured the length of the Binyan along the front of the Gizrah which was behind it, and the atikeha (corner structures) thereof on the one side and on the other side, a hundred cubits, with the Heikhal Hapenimi, and the ulam vestibules of the Khatzer; 
The doorposts, and the narrow chalonim, and the atikim balconies around on their three stories, opposite the saf (threshold), paneled with etz all around, and from the ground up to the chalonot, and the chalonot were covered; 
To that above the Petach, even unto the Beis HaPenimi, and at the outside, and by the wall all around penimi (inner) and khitzon (outer), by measure. 
And it was carved with keruvim and timorim, so that a palm tree was between a keruv and a keruv; and every keruv had two faces; 
So that the face of an adam was toward the palm tree on the one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree on the other side; it was carved throughout kol HaBeis all around. 
From the ground unto above the Petach were keruvim and timorim carved, and on the wall of the Heikhal. 
The mezuzas of the Heikhal were squared; as for the front of the Kodesh HaKodashim, the appearance of the one mezuzah was like the appearance of the other. 
The Mizbe'ach was of etz and was three cubits high, and the length thereof two cubits; and the corners thereof, and the length thereof, and the sides thereof, were of etz; and he said unto me, This is the shulchan that is before Hashem. 
And the Heikhal and the Kodesh had two delatot. 
And the delatot had two doors apiece, two turning doors; two delatot for the one door, and two delatot for the other door. 
And there were carved on them, on the delatot of the Heikhal, keruvim and timorim, like those carved upon the walls; and there was a beam upon the face of the Ulam at the outside. 
And there were narrow chalonim and timorim on the one side and on the other side, on the sides of the Ulam, and upon the tzela'ot of the Beis, and thick beams. 
