TEHILLIM.
Chapter 37.
(Of Dovid) 1 Fret not thyself because of re'im (evildoers); neither have thou kina (jealousy, envy) of the workers of iniquity. 
For they shall soon be cut down like the khatzir (grass), and wither as the green desheh (herb, plant). 
Trust in Hashem, and do tov; so shalt thou dwell in the Eretz (land), ure'eh emunah (and thou be pastured securely). 
Delight thyself also in Hashem, and He shall give thee the desires of thine lev. 
Commit thy derech (road, way) unto Hashem; trust also in Him; and He shall bring it to pass. 
And He shall bring forth thy tzedakah (righteousness) as the ohr (light), and thy mishpat (justice) as the tzohorayim (noonday). 
Rest in Hashem, and wait patiently for Him; fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his derech, because of the ish who bringeth wicked schemes to pass. 
Cease from anger, and forsake chemah (wrath); fret not thyself in any wise to do rah. 
For evildoers shall be cut off; but those that wait upon Hashem, they shall inherit the Eretz (land). 
For yet a little while, and the rasha shall not be; yes, thou shalt watch his place, and he will not be. 
But the anavim (meek ones) shall inherit Eretz; and shall delight themselves in rov shalom (great peace). 
The rasha plotteth against the tzaddik, and gnasheth upon him with his teeth. 
Adonoi shall laugh at him, for He seeth that his yom is coming. 
The resha'im have drawn out the cherev, and have bent their keshet, to cast down the oni (poor) and evyon (needy), and to slay such as be yishrei derech (upright ones on the road, that walk uprightly). 
Their cherev shall enter into their own lev, and their keshatot (bows) shall be broken. 
A little that a tzaddik hath is better than the riches of resha'im rabbim. 
For the zero'ot (arms, powers) of the resha'im shall be broken; but Hashem upholdeth the tzaddikim. 
Hashem knoweth the yamim of the temimim (blameless ones); and their nachalah (inheritance) shall be l'olam (forever). 
They shall not be put to shame in time of evil; and in the days of famine yisba'u (they shall be satisfied, enjoy plenty). 
But the resha'im shall perish, and the oyvei Hashem(enemies of Hashem) shall be like the glory of the meadows; they shall disappear like ashan (smoke), they shall vanish. 
The rasha borroweth, and repayeth not; but the tzaddik showeth chonen (generosity), and giveth. 
For such as be blessed of Him shall inherit Eretz; and they that be cursed of Him shall be cut off. 
The steps of a gever (man) konanu (are ordered, made firm) by Hashem and He delighteth in his derech. 
Though he stumble, he shall not utterly fall; for Hashem upholdeth him with His yad (hand, power). 
I have been na'ar (young), and now am old; yet I have not seen the tzaddik forsaken, nor his zera begging lechem. 
He is ever chonen (generous, merciful), and lendeth; and his zera is blessed. 
Depart from rah, and do tov; and dwell l'olam (for evermore). 
For Hashem loveth mishpat, and forsaketh not His chasidim; they are preserved l'olam; but the zera resha'im shall be cut off. 
The tzaddikim shall inherit Eretz, and dwell therein forever. 
The mouth of the tzaddik speaketh chochmah, and his leshon uttereth mishpat. 
The torat Elohav is in his lev; no steps of his shall slip. 
The rashah lieth in wait to ambush the tzaddik, and seeketh to slay him. 
Hashem will not leave him in his yad (hand, power), nor condemn him b'hishshafto (when he is judged, brought to trial). 
Wait on Hashem, and be shomer over His Derech, and He shall exalt thee to inherit Eretz; when the resha'im are cut off, thou shalt see it. 
I have seen the violently powerful rashah, spreading himself like an indigenous green tree. 
Yet he passed away, and, hinei, he was no more; yes, I sought him, but he could not be found. 
Mark the blameless man, and observe the yashar (upright); for the end of that ish is shalom. 
But the poshe'im (rebels, transgressors) shall be made shmad together; the latter end of the resha'im shall be cut off. 
But the Teshu'at Tzaddikim is of Hashem; He is their ma'oz (stronghold, refuge) in the time of tzoros. 
And Hashem helps them, and delivers them; He shall deliver them from the resha'im, and save them, because they take refuge in Him. 
