1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 3.
Therefore, when we could no longer endure it, we resolved to be left behind alone in Athens. 
Also we sent Timotiyos, acheinu and fellow po'el of Hashem in the Besuras HaGeulah of Moshiach. We sent Timotiyos in order to give you chozek (strength) and to speak divrei chizzuk to you on behalf of our Emunah. 
This was for the tachlis that no one be unsettled because of ES TZARAH. For you yourselves have da'as that we have a divine calendar date with ES TZARAH. 
For, hinei, when we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand that we were going to suffer redifah, just as also it came to pass, of which you have da'as. 
For this reason, when I could no longer endure it, I sent in order to know your emunah, lest somehow HaSatan Samma'el the Tempter HaMenasseh had ensnared you by nissayon and our labor should be for nothing. 
But, just now, when Timotiyos has come to us from you and has brought us good news of your Emunah and your ahavah and that you always have zochrim tovim (good memories) of us, yearning to see us, just as we yearn to see you. 
For this reason, Achim b'Moshiach, in all our tzoros and redifah, we received chozek because of you through your emunah. 
For now we have Chayyim if you have a firm standing and remain ne'emanot (faithful) in Hashem. 
For what hodayah are we able to return to Hashem concerning you because of all the simcha with which we rejoice on account of you before Eloheinu, 
As, yomam valailah, we are davening with all retzinut (earnestness) in order to see your penemer (faces) and to bring to shleimut what is lacking in your emunah? 
And may Eloheinu and Avinu, may Hashem Himself and Adoneinu Yehoshua direct our way to you. 
And may Hashem cause you to grow and to overflow and abound in ahavah (agape) for one another and for kol Bnei Adam, just as also we have ahavah (agape) for you, 
With this tachlis (purpose): to establish your levavot faultless in kedushah (holiness) in the presence of Hashem and Avinu at the Bi'as Moshiach (Coming of Moshiach) of Adoneinu Yehoshua with all His Kedoshim. Omein. 
