TEHILLIM.
Chapter 119.
Ashrei are the blameless ones in the derech, who walk in the torat Hashem. 
Ashrei are they that keep His edot (testimonies), and that seek Him with kol lev. 
They also do no iniquity; they walk in His drakhim. 
Thou hast commanded us to be diligently shomer over Thy pikkudim (precepts). 
O that my drakhim were directed to be shomer over Thy chukkim (statutes)! 
Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all Thy mitzvot. 
I will praise Thee with yosher levav (uprightness of heart) when I shall have learned Thy righteous mishpatim (ordinances). 
I will keep Thy chukkim; O forsake me not utterly. 
How shall a na'ar cleanse his way? By being shomer thereto according to Thy Davar (Word). 
With my kol lev have I sought Thee; O let me not wander from Thy mitzvot. 
Thy word have I hid in my lev, lema'an (so that) I might not sin against Thee. 
Baruch atah, Adonoi (Hashem); teach me Thy chukkim. 
With my sfatayim (lips) have I declared all the mishpatim of Thy mouth. 
I have rejoiced in the derech of Thy edot (testimonies), as much as in all riches. 
I will meditate in Thy pikkudim, and consider Thy orkhot (paths). 
I will delight myself in Thy chukkim; I will not forget Thy Davar. 
Deal bountifully with Thy eved, that I may live, and be shomer over Thy Davar. 
Open Thou mine eyes, that I may behold nifla'ot out of Thy torah. 
I am a ger on ha'aretz; hide not Thy mitzvot from me. 
My nefesh is shattered with ta'avah for Thy mishpatim at all times. 
Thou hast rebuked the zedim (arrogant ones) that are arurim (cursed ones), which do wander from Thy mitzvot. 
Remove from me cherpah (reproach) and contempt; for I have kept Thy edot (testimonies). 
Though sarim (princes) also sit and speak slander against me, yet Thy eved meditates on Thy chukkim. 
Thy edot (testimonies) also are my delight and anshei atzati (my counsellors). 
My nefesh has deveykus unto the aphar; revive Thou me according to Thy Davar. 
I have recounted my drakhim, and Thou heardest me; teach me Thy chukkim. 
Make me to understand the derech of Thy pikkudim; so shall I meditate on Thy nifla'ot. 
My nefesh drops with heavy sorrow; strengthen Thou me according unto Thy Davar. 
Remove from me the derech sheker; and graciously grant me Thy torah. 
I have chosen the derech emunah; thy mishpatim have I accounted worthy. 
I have deveykus with Thy edot (testimonies); Hashem, let me not be ashamed. 
I will run the derech of Thy mitzvot, for Thou shalt set my lev free. 
Teach me, Hashem, the derech of Thy chukkim; and I shall keep it unto the end. 
Give me understanding, and I shall keep Thy torah; yes, I shall be shomer over it with my kol lev. 
Make me to go in the path of Thy mitzvot; for therein do I delight. 
Incline my lev unto Thy edot, and not to betza (covetousness, selfish gain). 
Turn away mine eyes from beholding shav (vanity); and revive Thou me in Thy derech. 
Establish Thy word unto Thy eved, which is for the fear of Thee. 
Turn away my cherpah (reproach) which I fear; for Thy mishpatim are tovim. 
Hinei, I have longed after Thy precepts; revive me in Thy tzedakah. 
Let Thy chasadim come also unto me, Hashem, even Thy Teshu'ah (salvation), according to Thy word. 
So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me; for I trust in Thy Davar. 
And take not the devar emes utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in Thy mishpatim. 
So shall I be shomer over Thy torah tamid l'olam va'ed. 
And I will walk freely in a wide place; for I seek Thy pikkudim. 
I will speak of Thy edot (testimonies) also before melachim, and will not be ashamed. 
And I will delight myself in Thy mitzvot, which I love. 
My palms also will I lift up unto Thy mitzvot, which I love; and I will meditate on Thy chukkim. 
Remember the davar to Thy eved, on which Thou hast made me hope. 
This is my comfort in my oni (affliction); for Thy word hath revived me. 
The zedim (arrogant ones) have had me greatly in derision; yet have I not turned aside from Thy torah. 
I remembered Thy mishpatim from of old, Hashem; and have comforted myself. 
Zalafah (indignation) hath taken hold upon me because of the resha'im that forsake Thy torah. 
Thy chukkim have been my zemirot (songs) in the bais of my pilgrimage. 
I have remembered Thy Shem, Hashem, in the lailah, and have been shomer over Thy torah. 
Zot hayetah li, because I kept Thy pikkudim. 
Thou art my chelek, Hashem; I have said I would be shomer over Thy words. 
I sought Thy Face with my kol lev; be gracious unto me according to Thy word. 
I thought on my drakhim, and turned my feet unto Thy edot (testimonies). 
I made haste, and delayed not to be shomer over Thy mitzvot. 
The ropes of the resha'im have bound me; but I have not forgotten Thy torah. 
At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto Thee because of Thy righteous mishpatim. 
I am a chaver of all them that fear Thee, and of them that are shomer over Thy pikkudim. 
Ha'aretz, Hashem, is full of Thy chesed; teach me Thy chukkim. 
Thou hast dealt well with Thy eved, Hashem, according unto Thy word. 
Teach me good judgment and da'as; for I have believed in Thy mitzvot. 
Before I was afflicted I went astray; but now have I been shomer over Thy word. 
Thou art tov, and doest tov; teach me Thy chukkim. 
The zedim (arrogant ones) have forged a sheker against me; but I will keep Thy pikkudim with my kol lev. 
Their lev is callous like chelev; I delight in Thy torah. 
It is tov for me that I have been afflicted l'ma'an (in order that) I might learn Thy chukkim. 
The torah of Thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of zahav and kesef. 
Thy hands have made me and established me: give me understanding, that I may learn Thy mitzvot. 
They that fear Thee will be glad when they see me; for I have hoped in Thy Davar. 
I know, Hashem, Thy mishpatim are tzedek, and Thou in emunah (faithfulness) hast afflicted me. 
Let now Thy chesed be for my comfort, according to Thy word unto Thy eved. 
Let Thy rachamim come unto me, that I may live: for Thy torah is my delight. 
Let the zedim (arrogant ones) be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me without a cause: but I will meditate on Thy pikkudim (percepts). 
Let those that fear Thee turn unto me, and those that have known Thy edot. 
Let my lev be tamim (blameless, complete) in Thy chukkim; that I be not ashamed. 
My nefesh fainteth for Thy salvation: but I hope in Thy davar. 
Mine eyes fail for Thy word saying, Mosai (when) wilt Thou comfort me? 
For I am become like a wineskin in the smoke; yet do I not forget Thy chukkim. 
How many are the days of Thy eved? Mosai (when) wilt Thou execute mishpat on them that persecute me? 
The zedim (arrogant ones) have dug pits for me, which are not in accordance with Thy torah. 
All Thy mitzvot are faithful: they persecute me wrongfully; help Thou me. 
They had almost consumed me ba'aretz; but I forsook not Thy pikkudim. 
Revive me after Thy chesed; so shall I be shomer over the edut of Thy mouth. 
Forever, Hashem, Thy Davar is settled and stands firm in Shomayim. 
Thy emunah (faithfulness) is to all generations: Thou hast established eretz, and it stands enduring. 
They continue enduring to this day according to Thine mishpatim: for all things are Thy avadim. 
Unless Thy torah had been my delight, I should then have perished in mine oni. 
I will never forget Thy pikkudim: for with them Thou hast revived me. 
I am Thine, save me: for I have sought out Thy pikkudim. 
The resha'im have waited for me to destroy me: but I will think on Thy edot. 
I have seen an end of all perfection: but Thy mitzvah is boundless. 
O how I love Thy torah! It is my meditation kol hayom. 
Thou through Thy mitzvot hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever with me. 
I have more understanding than every melamed of mine: for Thy edot are my meditation. 
I understand more than the zekenim, for I keep Thy pikkudim. 
I have refrained my feet from every orakh rah, in order that I might be shomer over Thy Devar. 
I have not departed from Thy mishpatim: for Thou hast taught me. 
How sweet are Thy words unto my palate! Sweeter than devash to my mouth! 
Through Thy pikkudim I get understanding: therefore I hate every orakh sheker. 
Thy word is a ner unto my feet, ohr unto my path. 
I have sworn a shevuah, and I will perform it, that I will keep Thy righteous mishpatim. 
I am afflicted very much: revive me, Hashem, according unto Thy word. 
Accept the nidvot of my mouth, O Hashem, and teach me Thy mishpatim. 
My nefesh is continually in my yad: yet do I not forget Thy torah. 
The resha'im have laid a pach for me: yet I erred not from Thy pikkudim. 
Thy edot have I taken as a heritage forever: for they are the sasson lev of me. 
I have inclined mine lev to perform Thy chukkim forever, even unto the end. 
I hate the double-minded: but Thy torah do I love. 
Thou art my seter (hiding place) and my mogen: I hope in Thy Devar. 
Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the mitzvot of Elohai. 
Uphold me according unto Thy imrah, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed from my hope. 
Hold Thou me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect unto Thy chukkim continually. 
Thou hast rejected all them that err from Thy chukkim: for their deceitfulness is sheker (falsehood). 
Thou puttest away all resha'im of eretz like dross; therefore I love Thy edot. 
My basar trembleth for fear of Thee; and I am afraid of Thy mishpatim. 
I have done mishpat and tzedek; leave me not to mine oppressors. 
Be surety for Thy eved for good; let not the zedim (arrogant ones) oppress me. 
Mine eyes fail for Thy Yeshu'ah (salvation), and for the word of Thy tzedakah. 
Deal with Thy eved according unto Thy chesed, and teach me Thy chukkim. 
I am Thy eved; give me understanding, that I may know Thy edot (testimonies). 
It is time for Thee, Hashem, to work; for they have made void Thy torah. 
Therefore I love Thy mitzvot above zahav; yes, above fine gold. 
Therefore I esteem right all Thy pikkudim concerning all things; and I hate every orakh sheker. 
Thy edot (testimonies) are wonderful; therefore doth my nefesh keep them. 
The petach (entrance, doorway) of Thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple. 
I opened my mouth, and panted; for I longed for Thy mitzvot. 
Look Thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, as Thy manner is unto those that love Shimcha. 
Order my footsteps in Thy imrah; and let not any iniquity have dominion over me. 
Redeem me from the oppression of adam; so will I keep Thy pikkudim. 
Make Thy face to shine upon Thy eved; and teach me Thy chukkim. 
Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, for they are not shomer over Thy torah. 
Righteous art Thou, Hashem, and yashar are Thy mishpatim. 
Thy edot (testimonies) that Thou hast commanded are tzedek and emunah me'od (very faithful). 
My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten Thy devarim. 
Thy word is very tested; therefore Thy eved loveth it. 
I am small and despised; yet do not I forget Thy pikkudim. 
Thy tzedakah is tzedek l'olam, and Thy torah emes. 
Tzoros and anguish have taken hold on me; yet Thy mitzvot are my delight. 
The tzedek of Thy edot is l'olam; give me understanding, and I shall live. 
I cried with my kol lev; hear me, Hashem; I will keep Thy chukkim. 
I cried unto Thee; save me, and I shall be shomer over Thy edot (testimonies). 
I rose before the dawn, and cried out for help; I hoped in Thy Davar. 
Mine eyes are awake through the ashmurot (night watches), that I might meditate on Thy word. 
Hear my voice according unto Thy chesed; Hashem, revive me according to Thy mishpat. 
They draw near that follow after wicked schemes; they are far from Thy torah. 
Thou art karov (near), Hashem; and all Thy mitzvot are emes. 
Concerning Thy edot (testimonies), I have known of old that Thou hast founded them forever. 
Consider mine oni (affliction), and deliver me; for I do not forget Thy torah. 
Plead my cause; for me make go'el redemption; revive me according to Thy word. 
Yeshu'ah (salvation) is far from the resha'im, for they seek not Thy chukkim. 
Great are Thy rachamim, Hashem; revive me according to Thy mishpatim. 
Many are my persecutors and mine enemies; yet do I not turn aside from Thy edot. 
I beheld the bogedim, and was grieved because they were not shomer over Thy word. 
Consider how I love Thy pikkudim; revive me, Hashem, according to Thy chesed. 
Thy word is emes from the beginning; and every one of Thy righteous mishpatim endureth forever. 
Sarim (princes) have persecuted me without a cause; but my lev standeth in awe of Thy Davar. 
I rejoice at Thy imrah (word), as one that findeth great plunder. 
I hate and abhor sheker; but Thy torah do I love. 
Shevah times a day do I praise Thee because of Thy righteous mishpatim. 
Great shalom have they which love Thy torah; nothing shall cause them to stumble. 
Hashem, I have hoped for Thy Yeshu'ah (salvation), and do Thy mitzvot. 
My nefesh is shomer over Thy edot (testimonies); and I love them exceedingly. 
I have kept Thy pikkudim and Thy edot; for all my ways are before Thee. 
Let my cry come near before Thee, Hashem; give me understanding according to Thy Davar. 
Let my techinnah come before Thee; deliver me according to Thy word. 
My lips shall utter tehillah, when Thou hast taught me Thy chukkot. 
My leshon shall speak of Thy word; for all Thy mitzvot are tzedek. 
Let Thine Yad help me; for I have chosen Thy pikkudim. 
I have longed for Thy Yeshu'ah (salvation), Hashem; and Thy torah is my delight. 
Let my nefesh live, and it shall praise Thee; and let Thy mishpatim sustain me. 
I have gone astray like a seh oved (lost sheep); seek Thy eved; for I do not forget Thy mitzvot. 
