BERESHIS.
Chapter 15.
After these things the Devar Hashem came unto Avram in a makhazeh, saying, Fear not, Avram; I am thy mogen, and thy exceeding great sachar (reward). 
And Avram said, Adonoi Hashem, what wilt Thou give me, since I go childless, and the Ben Meshek of my Bais is this Eli'ezer of Damesek (Damascus)? 
And Avram said, See, to me Thou hast given no zera; and, hinei, one born in my bais is my yoresh (heir). 
And, hinei, the Devar Hashem came unto him saying, This shall not be thy yoresh; but he that shall come forth out of thine own body shall be thy yoresh. 
And He brought him forth outside, and said, Look now toward Shomayim, and count the kokhavim, if thou be able to number them; and He said unto him, So shall thy zera be. 
And he believed in Hashem; and He credited emunah (faith) to him as tzedakah (righteousness). 
And He said unto him, I am Hashem Who brought thee out of Ur Kasdim, to give thee ha'aretz hazot to be the yoresh of it. 
And he said, Adonoi Hashem, how can I have da'as that I will be its yoresh? 
And He said unto him, Bring Me a heifer meshuleshet, and a she goat meshuleshet, and a ram meshulash, and a dove, and a pigeon. 
And he brought unto Him all these, and divided them in two, and laid each half one opposite another; but the birds divided he not. 
And when the birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, Avram drove them away. 
And when the shemesh was going down, a tardemah fell upon Avram; and, hinei, a horror of great darkness fell upon him. 
And Hashem said unto Avram, Know of a surety that thy zera shall be a ger in a land not their own, and will serve them; and they will mistreat them arba me'ot shanah; 
And also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge; and afterward shall they come out with rechush gadol (great substance). 
And thou shalt go to thy avot in shalom; thou shalt be buried at a good old age. 
But in the fourth generation they shall come back here again; for the avon (iniquity) of the Emori (Amorite) is not yet full. 
And it came to pass, that, when the shemesh went down, and it was dark, hinei a smoking fire-pot, and a blazing torch passed between those pieces. 
On that day Hashem cut a brit (covenant) with Avram, saying, Unto thy zera have I given ha'aretz hazot, from the Wadi of Mitzrayim unto the great river, the river Euphrates: 
the land of the Keni, and the Kenizzi, and the Kadmoni, 
And the Chitti, and the Perizzi, and the Repha'im, 
And the Emori, and the Kena'ani, and the Girgashi, and the Yevusi. 
