TEHILLIM.
Chapter 74.
(A Maskil of Asaph) 1 O Elohim, why hast Thou cast us off lanetzach? Why doth Thine anger smoke against the tzon (sheep) of Thy mireh (pasture)? 
Remember Thy Edah (congregation), which Thou hast purchased of old; the shevet (tribe) of Thine nachalah, which Thou hast redeemed: this Har Tziyon, wherein Thou hast dwelt. 
Lift up Thy footsteps unto the mashu'ot netzach (perpetual ruins); even all that the oyev hath done wickedly in the Kodesh. 
Thine enemies roar in the midst of Thy Mo'ed (place of meeting); they set up their banners for otot (signs). 
It had been as though one lifted up kardumim (axes) upon the thicket of etz. 
But now they break down the carved panels at once with hammers and chisels. 
They have set ablaze Thy Mikdash, burning it to the ground; they have brought chillul to the Mishkan Shemecha (the dwelling place of Thy Name). 
They said in their hearts, Let us crush them altogether; they have burned up all the Mo'adei El in HaAretz. 
We see not our otot (signs); there is no longer any navi; neither is there among us any that knoweth ad mah (until when). 
O Elohim ad mosai, (how long) shall the adversary revile? Shall the oyev (enemy) blaspheme Thy Shem lanetzach (forever)? 
Why withdrawest Thou Thy Yad, even Thy Yamin (Right Hand)? Take it out of Thy Kheyk (bosom) and destroy. 
For Elohim is my Melech mikedem (from of old), working Yeshu'ah (salvation) in the midst of Ha'Aretz. 
Thou didst divide the yam by Thy oz (power); Thou didst break the heads of the sea serpents in the waters. 
Thou didst break the head of Leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to be ma'akhal (food) to the people inhabiting the wilderness. 
Thou didst break open the fountain and the flood; Thou driedst up mighty naharot (rivers). 
The yom is Thine, the lailah also is Thine; Thou hast prepared the ma'ohr (luminary, moon) and the shemesh. 
Thou hast set all the boundaries of Eretz; Thou hast made kayitz (summer) and choref (winter). 
Remember this, that the oyev (enemy) hath reproached Hashem, and that the am naval (foolish people) have blasphemed Shimcha. 
O deliver not the nefesh of Thy turtledove unto the wild beast; forget not the life of Thy aniyim (poor) lanetzach (forever). 
Have regard unto the Brit (covenant); for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of chamas. 
O let not the oppressed return in shame; let the oni and evyon praise Thy Shem. 
Arise, O Elohim, fight for Thine Own cause; remember how the naval (foolish man) revileth Thee kol hayom. 
Forget not the kol (voice) of Thine enemies, the tumult of those against Thee that rises up tamid (continually). 
