LUKAS.
Chapter 18.
Now he was speaking a mashal to them about how it is necessary always for them to daven and not to lose chozek, 
Saying, An aza (certain) Shofet was in a certain town. Now this Shofet had no fear of Hashem nor any respect for Bnei Adam. 
Now an almanah was in that town and she was coming to him saying, Grant me yashrus (justice) against my ish riv (opponent in a lawsuit). 
And for a zman (time) the Shofet was not willing. But after these things, he said to himself, If indeed Hashem I do not fear nor do Bnei Adam I respect, 
Yet because this almanah (widow) causes me tzoros and is such a nudzh (pest), I will grant yashrus (justice) to her, lest in the end she may wear me out by her constant coming. 
Now Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu said, Listen to what the unrighteous shofet says. 
Now will not Hashem by all means do mishpat for his Bechirim crying out to him yomam valailah? Will he delay long in bringing them help? 
I say to you that Hashem will bring about their yashrus (justice) swiftly, but when the Bar Enosh comes, will he then find emunah (faith) on haaretz? 
And he said this mashal also to some, who have become soimech (confident, putting their trust and being dependent) on themselves that they are tzaddikim and who are despising others. 
Shnei anashim (two men) went up to the Beis Hamikdash to daven, one was a Parush and the other, a moches (tax collector). 
The Parush was standing by himself, shawkling (ritual swaying while davening), and his tefillah went like this: Adonoi, Modeh Ani that I am not like other men, swindlers, resha'im, menaafim, or even this moches. 
I undergo a tzom (fast) twice during the week, I give the ma'aser (tithe) of everything as much as I get. 
But the moches (tax collector) stood at a distance and was not willing even to lift up his eynayim to Shomayim but was beating his chest, saying, Adonoi, rachem na al choteh kamoni! (L-rd, have mercy on a sinner like me!) 
I say to you, this one, rather than the other one, went down to his bais having been made yitzdak im Hashem(justified with G-d). Because everyone lifting himself up will be brought low, but the one bringing himself low will be uplifted. 
Now also they were bringing to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach yeladim that he might place his hands on them. But having seen this, the talmidim were rebuking them. 
But Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach called for them saying, Permit the yeladim to come to me and do not hinder them, for of such ones is the Malchut Hashem. 
Omein, I say to you, whoever does not welcome the Malchut Hashem as a yeled would, may by no means enter into it. 
And a certain one of the manhigim (leaders, one of the wealthier Baale-Battishe Jews) questioned Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, saying, Mori HaTov (Good Teacher), what mitzvah must I do to inherit Chayyei Olam? 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Why do you call me tov? No one is tov except Hashem alone, nu? 
You have daas of the Mitzvot. LO TINAF, LO TIRTZACH, LO TIGNOV, LO TAANEH VREIACHAH ED SHAKER, KABEID ES AVICHA VES IMMECHA. 
And he said, In all these things I have been shomer mitzvot and frum from my kinder-yoren. 
And having heard, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Still one thing for you is lacking. Everything as much as you have, sell and distribute to the aniyim, and you will have otzar in Himel; and come follow me. 
But having heard these things, he fell into agmat nefesh (grief, sadness). For he had much kesef. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, when he saw him fall into agmat nefesh, said, How difficult it is for the ones having osher (riches) to enter into the Malchut Hashem. 
For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for an oisher (rich man) to enter into the Malchut Hashem. 
But the ones, having heard, said, Then who is able to come to Yeshu'at Eloheinu? 
And he said, The things impossible with Bnei Adam are possible with Hashem. 
And Kefa said, Hinei, we have left everything to follow you. 
And he said to them, Omein, I say to you, that there is no one who left bais or isha or achim or horim (parents) or yeladim because of the Malchut Hashem, 
Who will not receive many times as much in this zman (time) and in the Olam HaBah, Chayyei Olam. 
And having taken the Shneym Asar (Twelve) aside in a yechidus, he said to them, Hinei, we are making another aliyah leregel (pilgrimage) to Yerushalayim, and all the things having been written by the Nevi'im about the Bar Enosh will be fulfilled. 
For he (the Bar Enosh Moshiach) will be delivered up to the Goyim and he will be ridiculed and he will be mistreated and he will be spat upon, 
And, having laid the shot (whip) on him, they will kill him and after his histalkus (passing), on the Yom HaShlishi there will be Techiyas HaMoshiach. 
And they had binah (understanding, comprehension) regarding none of these things, and this dvar was nistar (concealed) from them, and they had no understanding of the things being said. 
And it came about while Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach drew near to Yericho, a certain ivver (blind man) was sitting beside the road begging. 
And having heard a multitude traveling through, he was asking what this might be. 
And they reported to him that Yehoshua from Natzeret is passing by. 
And he cried out saying, Ben Dovid! Chaneni! (Have mercy on me!) 
And the ones going past him were rebuking him that he should be silent, but he just so much the more was crying out, Ben Dovid, chaneni! 
And stopping, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach commanded the ivver to be led to him. Having drawn near, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach asked him, What do you wish that I may do for you? 
And he said, Adoni, that I may regain my sight. 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Regain your sight; your emunah (faith) has brought you refuah (healing). 
And at once he saw again and was following Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, shouting, Baruch Hashem! And all the people, who were edei reiyah (eyewitnesses) of this, shouted, Baruch HaShem! 
