YECHEZKEL.
Chapter 13.
And the Devar Hashem came unto me, saying: 
Ben adam, prophesy against the nevi'im of Yisroel that prophesy, and say thou unto them that prophesy out of their own levavot, Hear ye the Devar Hashem; 
Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Hoy (woe, doom) unto the foolish nevi'im, that follow their own ruach, and have seen nothing! 
O Yisroel, thy nevi'im are like the jackals among ruins. 
Ye have not gone up into the peratzot (breaches), neither repaired the wall for Bais Yisroel to stand firm in the milchamah (battle) in the Yom Hashem. 
They have seen shav (vanity) and kesem kazav (lying divination), saying, Hashem saith; and Hashem hath not sent them; yet they hope that their davar will be fulfilled. 
Have ye not seen a vain vision, and have ye not spoken a kesem kazav (lying divination), whereas ye say, Hashem saith it; albeit I have not spoken? 
Therefore thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Because ye have spoken shav (vanity, futility) and seen kazav (lie), therefore, hineni, I am against you, saith Adonoi Hashem. 
And Mine yad shall be against the nevi'im that see shav (vanity, futility), and that divine kazav (lie): they shall not be in the sod (council) of My people, neither shall they be written in the Ketav (Register) of Bais Yisroel, neither shall they enter into Admat Yisroel; and ye shall know that I am Adonoi Hashem. 
Because, even because they have seduced My people to lead them astray, saying, Shalom; v'ein shalom; and one built up a chayitz (wall, partition, temporary wall), and, hinei, others plastered it with dissolving mud-plaster. 
Say unto them that plaster it with mud-plaster that it shall fall: there shall be an overflowing geshem; and great hailstones shall fall; and a ruach se'arot (storm wind) shall burst forth. 
Hinei, when the kir (wall) is fallen, shall it not be said unto you, Where is the mud-plaster wherewith ye have daubed it? 
Therefore thus saith Adonoi Hashem; I will even cause a ruach se'arot (storm wind) in My wrath; and there shall be an overflowing geshem in Mine anger, and great hailstones in My fury to destroy. 
So will I break down the kir (wall) that ye have plastered with mud-plaster, and bring it down to the ground, so that the yesod (foundation) thereof shall be laid bare, and it shall fall, and ye shall be destroyed in the midst thereof; and ye shall know that I am Hashem. 
Thus will I spend My chemah (wrath) upon the kir (wall), and upon them that have plastered it with mud-plaster, and will say unto you, The kir (wall) is no more, neither they that mud-plastered it; 
Namely, the nevi'im of Yisroel which prophesy concerning Yerushalayim, and which see chazon shalom for her, v'ein shalom, saith Adonoi Hashem. 
Likewise, thou ben adam, set thy face against the banot amecha (daughters of your people), which prophesy out of their own lev; and prophesy thou against them, 
And say, Thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Hoy (woe, doom) to the seamstresses of magic charms on wrists, who make mispachot (amulets) for the rosh of every size to hunt nefashot! Will ye hunt the nefashot of My people, and yet save your own nefashot alive? 
And will ye profane Me among My people for handfuls of se'orim and for pieces of lechem, to slay the nefashot that should not die, and to save the nefashot alive that should not live, by your kazav (lying) to My people that hear your kazav? 
Therefore thus saith Adonoi Hashem: Hineni, I am against your magic charms, wherewith ye there hunt to ensnare the nefashot like birds, and I will tear them from your arms, and will let the nefashot go, even the nefashot that ye hunt like birds. 
Your mispachot (amulets) also will I tear off, and I will save My people out of your yad, and they shall be no more in your yad (hand, power) to be hunted; and ye shall know that I am Hashem. 
Because with sheker (falsehood) ye have made the lev tzaddik sad, to whom I have not brought sadness; and strengthened the hands of the rasha, that he should not turn from his derech harah to save his life; 
Therefore ye shall see no longer shav (vanity, futility), nor practice divinations; for I will save My people out of your yad; and ye shall know that I am Hashem. 
