MATTITYAHU.
Chapter 4.
Then Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was led up into the midbar by the Ruach Hakodesh of Hashem to undergo nisyonos (temptations) by HaSatan. 
And, having undergone a tzom (fast) for arba'im yom varbaim lailah (forty days and forty nights), afterward Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was famished. 
And the tempter came to him and said to him, If you are the Ben HaElohim, then speak the command that these avanim (stones) become lechem (bread). 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach answered, Katuv (It is written), LO AL HALECHEM LVADOH YCHEYEH HAADAM, KI AL KOL MOTZAH FI HASHEM(Man does not live on bread alone but on every word that comes from the mouth of Hashem). 
Then HaSatan takes Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach to the Ir Hakodesh (the Holy City) and sets him atop the pinnacle of the Beis Hamikdash, 
and says to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, If you are the Ben HaElohim, then throw yourself down, for katuv (it is written), MALACHAV YTZAV-VEH LACH (His angels he will command concerning you) and upon their hands they will lift you up lest you strike your foot against a stone (Ps 91:11,12). 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to HaSatan, Again, it is written, LO TENASSU ES HASHEM ELOHEICHEM(Do not test Hashem your G-d). 
Again, HaSatan takes Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach to a very high mountain and shows him all the mamlechot (kingdoms) of the Olam Hazeh and the kavod (glory) of them. 
And HaSatan said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, All these things I will give to you, if you will fall down VTISHTACHAVEH (and you will bow down to) me. 
Then Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to him, Depart, HaSatan! For katuv (it is written), ES HASHEM ELOHEICHA TIRA VOTO TAAVOD(The L-rd your G-d you shall fear and Him you shall worship). 
Then HaSatan leaves him, and, hinei, malachim came and attended to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
Now, having heard that Yochanan was arrested, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach departed into the Galil. 
And having left behind Natzeret, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach headquartered in K'far-Nachum by the sea, in the environs of Zevulun and Naphtali. 
This was to fulfill what was spoken through Yeshayah HaNavi, 
ARTZAH Zevulun VARTZAH Naphtali (To the land of Zevulun and to the land of Naphtali), the way to the sea beyond the Yarden, Galil HaGoyim, 
the people sitting in CHOSHECH RAU OHR GADOL (darkness saw a great light), YOSHVEI V'ERETZ TZALMAVET (the ones living in the land of the shadow of death), a light has dawned among them. 
From then Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach began to proclaim, saying, LAlter LiTeshuvah (Immediate Repentance), for the Malchut HaShomayim has come near. 
And walking beside Sea of Galilee (Lake Kinneret), Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach saw two achim, Shim'on, the one being called Kefa (Petros), and his brother Andrew, casting a net into the sea, for they were daiyagim (fishermen). 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says, Come, follow me, and I will make you daiyagei adam (fishers of men). 
And immediately, leaving their nets, they followed Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And having gone on from there, he saw two other achim, Ya'akov Ben Zavdai and Yochanan his brother, in the sirah (boat) with Zavdai their father, repairing their nets, and he summoned them. 
Immediately, leaving the sirah (boat) and their father, they followed Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach went about in all the Galil, exercising the ministry of moreh (teacher) in their shuls and of darshan (preacher) of the Besuroh Tovoh (Good Tiding of a Joyous Event), the Besuras HaGeulah (the Good News of Redemption) of the Malchut Hashem, and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach went about bringing refuah (healing) to every disease and every illness of the people. 
And the report went out about Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach throughout all Syria; and they brought to him all the cholim (sick) with various illnesses and machalot, demoniacs, epileptics, and paralytics; and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach brought them refuah. 
And from the Galil, the Decapolis, Yerushalayim, Yehudah, and Ever-HaYarden, from all these places great multitudes followed him. 
