BERESHIS.
Chapter 36.
Now these are the toldot Esav, who is Edom. 
Esav took his nashim of the Banot Kena'an: Adah Bat Elon the Chitti, and Oholivamah Bat Anah Bat Tziveon the Chivi; 
And Basmat Bat Yishmael, achot Nevayot. 
And Adah bore to Esav Eliphaz; and Basmat bore Reuel; 
And Oholivamah bore Ye'ush, and Ya'alam, and Korach; these are the Bnei Esav, which were born unto him in Eretz Kena'an. 
And Esav took his nashim, and his banim, and his banot, and kol nafshot of his bais, and his mikneh, and all his behemah, and all his possessions, which he had acquired in Eretz Kena'an; and went into the eretz from the face of Ya'akov achiv. 
For their wealth was more than that they might dwell together; and the eretz of their sojourns could not support them because of their mikneh. 
Thus dwelt Esav in har Se'ir; Esav is Edom. 
And these are the toldot Esav avi Edom in har Se'ir: 
These are the shemot Bnei Esav; Eliphaz Ben Adah eshet Esav, Reuel Ben Basmat eshet Esav. 
And the Bnei Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Tzepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz. 
And Timna was pilegesh (concubine) to Eliphaz Ben Esav; and she bore to Eliphaz Amalek; these were the Bnei Adah eshet Esav. 
And these are the Bnei Reuel: Nachat, and Zerach, Shammah, and Mizzah; these were the Bnei Basmat eshet Esav. 
And these were the Bnei Oholivamah Bat Anah Bat Tziveon, eshet Esav: and she bore to Esav Ye'ush, and Ya'alam, and Korach. 
These were alufei (chiefs) of the Bnei Esav: the Bnei Eliphaz the bechor Esav; aluf (chief) Teman, aluf Omar, aluf Tzepho, aluf Kenaz, 
Aluf (chief) Korach, aluf (chief) Gatam, and aluf (chief) Amalek; these are the alufei Eliphaz in Eretz Edom; these were the Bnei Adah. 
And these are the Bnei Reuel Ben Esav: aluf (chief) Nachat, aluf Zerach, aluf Shammah, aluf Mizzah; these are the alufei Reuel in Eretz Edom; these are the Bnei Basmat eshet Esav. 
And these are the Bnei Oholivamah eshet Esav: aluf (chief) Ye'ush, aluf Ya'alam, aluf Korach; these were the alufei Oholivamah Bat Anah eshet Esav. 
These are the Bnei Esav, who is Edom, and these are their alufim (chiefs). 
These are the Bnei Se'ir the Chori, who inhabited HaAretz: Lotan, and Shoval, and Tziveon, and Anah, 
And Dishon, and Etzer, and Dishan; these are the alufei HaChori, the Bnei Se'ir in Eretz Edom. 
And the Bnei Lotan were Chori and Hemam; and achot Lotan was Timna. 
And the Bnei Shoval were these: Alvan, and Manachat, and Eival, Shepho, and Onam. 
And these are the Bnei Tziveon: both Ayah, and Anah; this was that Anah that found the hot springs in the midbar, as he pastured the chamorim of Tziveon aviv. 
And the Bnei Anah were these: Dishon, and Oholivamah Bat Anah. 
And these are the Bnei Dishon: Chemdan, and Eshban, and Yitran, and Keran. 
The Bnei Etzer are these: Bilhan, and Za'avan, and Akan. 
The Bnei Dishan are these: Utz, and Aran. 
These are the alufei (chiefs) haChori: aluf (chief) Lotan, aluf Shoval, aluf Tziveon, aluf Anah, 
Aluf Dishon, aluf Etzer, aluf (chief) Dishan; these are the alufei haChori by their alufim (chiefs) in Eretz Se'ir. 
And these are the melechim that reigned in Eretz Edom, before there reigned any melech over the Bnei Yisroel. 
And Bela Ben Be'or reigned in Edom; and the shem of his city was Dinhavah. 
And Bela died, and Yovav Ben Zerach of Botzrah reigned in his place. 
And Yovav died, and Chusham of Eretz Temani reigned in his place. 
And Chusham died, and Hadad Ben Bedad, who defeated Midyan in the sadeh of Moav, reigned in his place; and the shem of his city was Avit. 
And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place. 
And Samlah died, and Sha'ul of Rechovot-nahar reigned in his place. 
And Sha'ul died, and Ba'al-Chanan Ben Achbor reigned in his place. 
And Ba'al-Chanan Ben Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his place; and the shem of his city was Pau; and the shem of his isha was Mehetavel Bat Matred Bat Mei-Zahav. 
And these are the shemot of the alufei Esav, according to their mishpechot, after their mekomot, by their shemot: aluf (chief) Timna, aluf (chief) Alvah, aluf (chief) Yetet, 
Aluf Oholivamah, aluf (chief) Elah, aluf (chief) Pinon, 
Aluf (chief) Kenaz, aluf (chief) Teman, aluf (chief) Mivtzar, 
Aluf (chief) Magdiel, aluf (chief) Iram; these are the alufei Edom, according to their moshavot in the eretz of their achuzzah; this is Esav Avi Edom. 
