YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 32.
The Davar that came to Yirmeyah from Hashem in the tenth year of Tzidkiyah Melech Yehudah, which was the eighteenth year of Nevukhadretzar. 
For then the army of Melech Bavel besieged Yerushalayim; and Yirmeyah HaNavi was imprisoned in the Khatzer (courtyard) of the Guard, which was in Bais Melech Yehudah. 
For Tzidkiyah Melech Yehudah had imprisoned him, saying, Why dost thou prophesy, and say, Thus saith Hashem, Hineni, I will give this city into the yad Melech Bavel, and he shall capture it; 
And Tzidkiyah Melech Yehudah shall not escape out of the yad of the Kasdim (Chaldeans), but shall surely be delivered into the yad Melech Bavel, and shall speak with him mouth to mouth, and his eynayim shall behold his eynayim; 
And he shall lead Tzidkiyah to Bavel, and there shall he be until I visit him, saith Hashem; though ye fight against the Kasdim (Chaldeans), ye shall not succeed. 
And Yirmeyah said, The Devar Hashem came unto me, saying, 
Hinei, Chanam'el Ben Shallum thine dod (uncle) shall come unto thee saying, Buy thee my sadeh that is in Anatot: for the mishpat haGeulah (right of Redemption) is thine to buy it. 
So Chanam'el ben dodi came to me in the Khatzer (court) of the Guard according to the Devar Hashem, and said unto me, Buy my sadeh, now, that is in Anatot, which is in Eretz Binyamin; for the mishpat hayerushah (right of possession) is thine, and the geulah (redemption) is thine; buy it for thyself. Then I knew that this was the Devar Hashem. 
And I bought the sadeh of Chanam'el ben dodi, that was in Anatot, and weighed him out the kesef, even seventeen shekels of kesef. 
And I signed the sefer (deed), and sealed it, and took edim (witnesses), and weighed him out the kesef on the scales. 
So I took the sefer hamikneh (deed of purchase), both that which was sealed according to the mitzvah and chukkim, and that which was the unsealed copy: 
And I gave the sefer hamikneh unto Baruch Ben Neriyah Ben Machseiyah, in the sight of Chanam'el my cousin, and in the presence of the edim that signed the sefer hamikneh, before all the Yehudim that sat in the khatzer (courtyard) of the prison. 
And I charged Baruch before their eyes, saying, 
Thus saith Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel: Take these sefarim, this sefer hamikneh, both which is sealed, and this sefer which is unsealed; and put them in an earthen vessel, that they may last yamim rabbim. 
For thus saith Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel: Batim (houses) and sadot (fields) and kramim (vineyards) shall be bought again in this land. 
Now when I had delivered the sefer hamikneh unto Baruch Ben Neriyah, I davened unto Hashem, saying, 
Ah Adonoi Hashem! Hinei, Thou hast made the Shomayim and the Eretz by Thy koach hagadol and Thy outstretched zero'a, and there is nothing too difficult for Thee; 
Thou showest chesed unto alafim, and recompensest avon avot into the kheyk of their banim after them; HaEl HaGadol HaGibbor Hashem Tzva'os Shmo, 
Gadol in etzah (counsel), and mighty in deed; for Thine eynayim are open upon all the drakhim of Bnei Adam; to give everyone according to his drakhim, and according to the fruit of his doings; 
Which hast set otot and mofetim in Eretz Mitzrayim, even unto this day, and in Yisroel, and among adam (mankind); and hast made Thee a Shem, as at this day; 
And hast brought forth Thy people Yisroel out of Eretz Mitzrayim with otot, and with mofetim, and with a yad chazakah, and with an outstretched zero'a, and with great terror; 
And hast given them this land, which Thou didst swear to their avot to give them, eretz zavat cholov udevash; 
And they came in, and possessed it; but they obeyed not Thy voice, neither walked in Thy torah; they have done nothing of all that Thou commandedst them to do; therefore Thou hast caused all this ra'ah to come upon them. 
Hinei, the siege ramps, they are come unto the Ir to take it; and the Ir is given into the yad of the Kasdim (Chaldeans), that fight against it, because of the cherev, and of the ra'av, and of the dever; and what Thou hast spoken is come to pass; and, behold, Thou seest it. 
And Thou hast said unto me, O Adonoi Hashem, Buy thee the sadeh for kesef, and take edim (witnesses); for the Ir is given into the yad of the Kasdim (Chaldeans). 
Then came the Devar Hashem unto Yirmeyah, saying, 
Hinei, I am Hashem Elohei Kol Basar; is there any thing too difficult for Me? 
Therefore thus saith Hashem: Hineni, I will give this city into the yad of the Kasdim (Chaldeans), and into the yad of Nevukhadretzar Melech Bavel, and he shall capture it; 
And the Kasdim (Chaldeans), that fight against this city, shall come and set eish to this city, and burn it with the batim (houses), upon whose gagot (roofs) they have offered ketoret unto Ba'al, and poured out nesakhim (drink offerings) unto elohim acherim, to provoke Me to anger. 
For the Bnei Yisroel and the Bnei Yehudah have only done rah (evil) before Me from their youth; for the Bnei Yisroel have only provoked Me to anger with the work of their hands, saith Hashem. 
For this city hath been to Me as a provocation of Mine anger and of My fury from the day that they built it even unto this day; that I should remove it from before My face, 
Because of all the ra'ah of the Bnei Yisroel and of the Bnei Yehudah, which they have done to provoke Me to anger, they, their melachim, their sarim, their kohanim, and their nevi'im, and the Ish Yehudah, and the inhabitants of Yerushalayim. 
And they have turned unto Me the oref (back), and not the panim; though I taught them, rising up early and teaching them, yet they have not paid heed to receive musar. 
But they set their shikkutzim (abominations) in the Beis, which is called by Shmi, to make it tameh (unclean). 
And they built the high places of Ba'al, which are in the Gey Ben Hinnom, to cause their banim and their banot to pass through the eish unto Molech; which I commanded them not, neither came it into My lev, that they should do this toe'vah (abomination) to cause Yehudah to sin. 
And now therefore thus saith Hashem Elohei Yisroel, concerning this city, whereof ye say, It shall be delivered into the yad Melech Bavel by the cherev, and by the ra'av and by the dever; 
Hineni, I will gather them out of all countries, where I have driven them in Mine anger, and in My fury, and in great wrath; and I will bring them back unto this makom, and I will cause them to dwell securely; 
And they shall be My people, and I will be their Elohim; 
And I will give them lev echad (one heart), and derech echad (one way), that they may fear Me kol hayamim, for the tov of them, and of their banim after them; 
And I will make a Brit Olam with them, that I will not turn away from doing them good; but I will put My fear in their hearts, that they shall not depart from Me. 
Indeed, I will rejoice over them to do them good, and I will plant them in this land b'emes with all My lev and with all My nefesh. 
For thus saith Hashem; Just as I have brought all this ra'ah hagedolah upon this people, so will I bring upon them kol hatovah that I have promised them. 
And sadeh shall be bought in this land, whereof ye say, It is desolate without adam or behemah; it is given into the yad of the Kasdim (Chaldeans). 
Sadot (fields) will be bought for kesef, and the sefer (deed) will be signed and sealed and witnessed in Eretz Binyamin, and in the places around Yerushalayim, and in the towns of Yehudah, and the towns of the hill country, and in the towns of the Shephelah, and in the towns of the Negev; for I will cause their captivity to return, saith Hashem. 
