GEVUROT MEYRUACH HAKODESH.
Chapter 2.
And when the day of Shavuos is fulfilled, they were all together in one place. 
And there was mitamuhl (suddenly) from Shomayim a sound like the rushing of a violent wind, and it filled the whole bais where they were sitting. 
And leshonot appeared to them, being divided as eish resting on each one of them, 
And all were filled with the Ruach Hakodesh, and they began to speak in leshonot acherot as the Ruach Hakodesh was giving the utterance to them. 
Now there were in Yerushalayim frum, charedi (orthodox) Yehudim from all the nations under Shomayim. 
And at this sound, the multitude assembled and was bewildered, because they were hearing, each one in his own native language, the Achim b'Moshiach speaking. 
And they were nispoyel (standing in awe) and marveled, saying, Hinei, are not all of these Galileans speaking? 
And how are we hearing, each in our own language in which we were born? 
We Parthians and Medes and Elamites; the ones living in Mesopotamia, Yehudah, Cappadocia, Pontus, Asia, 
Phrygia, Pamphylia, Mitzrayim (Egypt), and the regions of Libya around Cyrene; and the visiting Romans, 
Both Yehudim and Gerim (Proselytes), Cretan, and Arabic, we hear them speaking in other languages than their own of the Gevurot (mighty acts) of Hashem. 
And all had real hispailus (overwhelming awe) and were bewildered saying one to another, What can this mean? 
But others, mocking, were saying, Of sweet wine they have been filled! 
But Kefa, having stood with the Achad Asar, lifted up his voice and declared to them, Anashim Yehudim! And the ones inhabiting Yerushalayim, have da'as of all this and be goires (listen to) my devarim: 
For these ones are not, as you assume, in their schnaps, for it is only the third hour of the day (nine o'clock in the morning). 
But this is what has been spoken by Yoel HaNavi; 
And it shall be in the Acharit Hayamim, ne'um Hashem, ESHPOCH ES RUCHI AL KOL BASAR V'NIB'U BNEICHEM U'VENOTEICHEM ZIKNEICHEM CHALOMOT YACHALOMUN BACHUREICHEM CHEZYONOT YIRU(I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh: and your sons and daughters will prophesy, your old men will dream dreams and your bochrim will see visions). 
And upon My avadim and upon My shfakhot in BAYYAMIM HAHEMMAH ESHPOCH ES RUCHI (in those days I will pour out my Ruach Hakodesh) and they will speak devarim hanevu'ah: 
And I will give MOFTIM BASHOMAYIM and signs on ha'aretz below, DAHM VA'EISH V'TIMROT ASHAM (blood and fire and billows of smoke). 
The shemesh (sun) will be transformed into choshech (darkness) and the moon into blood before the great and dreadful YOM HASHEM. 
And it will be that everyone whoever calls upon the Name of Adonoi will be saved. 
Anshei Yisroel, listen to these devarim: Yehoshua of Natzeret, a man having been attested by Hashem to you by gevurot and moftim which Hashem did through him in your midst, just as you yourselves have da'as, 
This one, delivered up by the determined cheshbon (plan) and yedi'ah mukdemet (foreknowledge) of Hashem, and by the hand of lawless Bnei Adam you made him talui al HaEtz(being hanged on the Tree) and put him to death. 
But in fact Hashem made Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach to stand up alive again, having destroyed the Chevlei HaMavet, because it was impossible for Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach to be held by Deathʼs ko'ach. 
For Dovid Hamelech says of him, SHIVVITI HASHEM L'NEGDI TAMID, KI MIMINI BAL EMMOT (I set Adonoi before me always, because he is at my right hand I will not be shaken.) 
Therefore my heart was cheered up and my tongue exulted and in addition also my flesh, my body, will live in secure hope. 
Because you will not abandon the nefesh (soul) of me to destruction nor will you give your Chasid to see corruption. 
TODIEINI ORACH CHAYYIM SOVA SEMACHOT ES PANECHA (You made known to me the path of Chayyim, you will fill me with simcha in your presence). 
Anashim Achim, it is permitted to speak with bitachon (confidence) to you benoigeia (regarding) Dovid Avinu, that also he died and was buried and his kever (tomb) is with us until this day. 
Therefore, being a Navi and having da'as that with a shevu'ah (an oath) HASHEM swore to him that from his loins his zera would sit upon his KISSE… 
Foreseeing this, Dovid Hamelech spoke about the Techiyas HaMoshiach: neither was he “abandoned to destruction nor did his BASAR see corruption.” 
This Yehoshua in fact Hashem made to stand up alive again, of which we all are Edim. 
Having been exalted to the right hand of Hashem and having received the havtachah of the Ruach Hakodesh from Elohim HaAv, Moshiach poured out this which you also see and hear. 
For Dovid Hamelech did not ascend into Shomayim, but he says, Hashem says to Adoni, SHEV LIMINI (sit down at my right hand), 
Until I make OYVECHA (your enemies) your footstool. 
Therefore, assuredly let Klal Yisroel have da'as that this Yehoshua, whom you made talui al HaEtz(being hanged on the Tree), this one Hashem has made both Adoneinu and Rabbeinu, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And when they heard this, they were pierced with conviction in their levavot, and they said to Kefa and to the other of Moshiachʼs Shlichim, Achim, what shall we do? 
And Kefa said to them, Make teshuva (repentance, turning from chet to Hashem) and each of you submit to a tevilah of teshuva in the Shem of Yehoshua HaMoshiach, for the selichat avon of you, and you will receive the matanah of the Ruach Hakodesh. 
For to you is the havtachah and to your yeladim and to all the ones at a distance, as many as may YIKRA B'SHEM ADONOI ELOHEINU. 
And with many other devarim, Kefa gave solemn edut (testimony) and was warning them, Receive yeshu'at Eloheinu from this DOR IKKESH U'FETALTOL (warped and crooked generation)! 
Those, who were mekabel Besuras HaGeulah and welcomed his dvar, submitted to a tevilah of teshuva and there were added in that day nefashot (souls) beerech (approximately, dacht zich) shloshet alafim (three thousand). 
And they were keseder (constantly) shtark (steadfastly) devoting themselves to the Moshiachʼs pnimiyus (innermost) Torah as handed on by Moshiachʼs Shlichim (emmisaries of the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach) and to being mishtatef (involved, joining) in the Messianic Chavurah (fellowship, company, group), and to the tishen (shared meals) with Betzi'at HaLechem (Breaking Bread) at the Seudos Moshiach and to the Tefillos. 
All were filled with yirat Shomayim and were nispoyel (in awe), and many moftim and otot through Moshiachʼs Shlichim were taking place. 
And all the Jewish Ma'aminim HaMeshichiyim were together and they were having all things in common. 
And they were selling their properties and possessions and were distributing tzedakah to everyone as someone had need. 
And yom yom, devoting themselves with one mind in the courts of the Beis Hamikdash, and from bais to bais, offering the Betzi'at HaLechem, they were together at tish with single-hearted exultation and hitlahavut. 
Praising Hashem, and having favor with all the people while G-d was adding to their number yom yom those receiving yeshu'at Eloheinu. 
