ZECHARYAH.
Chapter 10.
Ask ye of Hashem rain in the time of the latter rain; from Hashem who makes the storm clouds, and gives them showers of rain, to every one esev in the sadeh. 
For the terafim (idols) have spoken aven (deceit, nothing), and the diviners envision sheker, and have told false chalomot (dreams); hevel is their comfort; therefore the people wander like sheep, oppressed for lack of a ro'eh (shepherd). 
Mine anger was kindled against the ro'im (shepherds), and I punished the attudim (he-goats, leaders); for Hashem Tzva'os hath visited His eder (flock), Bais Yehudah, and hath made them like His majestic war horse. 
From him will come forth the Pinnah (Cornerstone), from him, the Yated (Tent Peg), from him, the Keshet Milchamah (battle bow), from him every ruler. 
Together they shall be like gibborim, which tread down their enemies in the mire of the streets in the milchamah; and they shall fight, because Hashem is with them, and they shall overthrow the riders on susim. 
And I will strengthen the Bais Yehudah, and I will save the Bais Yosef, and I will restore them; for I have rachamim upon them; and they shall be as though I had not rejected them; for I am Hashem Eloheihem, and I will answer them. 
And they of Ephrayim shall be like a gibbor (mighty man), and their lev shall have simcha as through yayin; yea, their banim shall see, and have simcha, and their lev shall rejoice in Hashem. 
I will whistle for them, and I will gather them in; for I have redeemed them; and they shall multiply as they have multiplied. 
And I will sow them among the peoples; and they shall remember Me in far countries; and they shall survive and live with their banim, and they will return. 
I will bring them back again also out of Eretz Mitzrayim, and gather them out of Assyria; and I will bring them into the Eretz Gil'ad and Levanon; until no more room shall be found for them. 
And He shall pass through the yam of tzarah, and shall strike the waves in the yam, and all the depths of the Nile shall dry up; and the ga'on (pride) of Assyria shall be cast down, and the shevet (scepter) of Mitzrayim shall depart. 
And I will strengthen them in Hashem; and they shall walk in Shmo (His Name), saith Hashem. 
