SHEMOT.
Chapter 18.
When Yitro, the kohen of Midyan, Mosheʼs khoten (father-in-law), heard of all that Elohim had done for Moshe, and for Yisroel His people, and that Hashem had brought Yisroel out of Mitzrayim; 
Then Yitro, Mosheʼs khoten, received Tzipporah, Mosheʼs wife, after Moshe had sent her away, 
And her two banim; of which the shem of the one was Gershom; for he said, I have been a ger in a foreign land; 
And the shem of the other was Eli'ezer; for the Elohei Avi, said he, was ezri (my help), and delivered me from the cherev of Pharaoh; 
And Yitro, Mosheʼs khoten, came with his banim and his isha unto Moshe into the midbar, where he encamped at the Har HaElohim; 
And he said unto Moshe, I thy khoten (father-in-law) Yitro am come unto thee, and thy isha, and her two banim with her. 
And Moshe went out to meet his khoten, bowed low, and kissed him; and they asked each other of their shalom (welfare); and they came into the ohel. 
And Moshe told his khoten all that Hashem had done unto Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for the sake of Yisroel, and all the travail that had befallen them along the derech, and how Hashem saved and delivered them. 
And Yitro rejoiced for all the tovah which Hashem had done for Yisroel, whom He had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians. 
And Yitro said, Baruch Hashem, Who hath rescued you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh, and Who hath delivered HaAm from under the hand of the Egyptians. 
Now I have da'as that Hashem is gadol than kol haelohim; for in the thing wherein they dealt proudly He was above them. 
And Yitro, Mosheʼs khoten, brought an olah and zevakhim for Elohim; and Aharon came, and kol Ziknei Yisroel, to eat lechem with Mosheʼs khoten before HaElohim. 
And it came to pass on next day, that Moshe sat to judge HaAm; and HaAm stood around Moshe from the boker unto erev. 
And when Mosheʼs khoten saw all that he was doing for HaAm, he said, What is this thing that thou doest to the people? Why sittest thou thyself alone, and kol HaAm stand around thee from boker unto erev? 
And Moshe said unto his khoten, Because HaAm come unto me to inquire of Elohim; 
When they have a matter, they come unto me; and I judge between one and another, and I do make them know the chukkei HaElohim, and His torot. 
And Mosheʼs khoten said unto him, The thing that thou doest is not tov. 
Thou wilt surely wear out, both thou, and HaAm hazeh that is with thee; for this thing is too heavy for thee; thou art not able to perform it thyself alone. 
Shema (pay heed) now unto my voice, I will give thee counsel, and may Elohim be with thee; be thou for HaAm before HaElohim, that thou mayest bring the disputes unto HaElohim; 
And thou shalt teach them chukkim and torot, and shalt show them the derech wherein they must walk, and the ma'aseh that they must do. 
Moreover thou shalt provide out of kol HaAm anshei chayil (able men), yirei Elohim, anshei emes, hating bribes; and place such over them, to be over thousands, and over hundreds, over fifties, and over tens; 
And let them judge HaAm at all times; and it shall be, that every davar hagadol they shall bring unto thee, but every davar hakaton they shall judge; so shall it be eased for thyself, and they shall bear the burden with thee. 
If thou shalt do this thing, and Elohim command thee so, then thou shalt be able to endure, and kol HaAm hazeh shall also go to their place in shalom. 
So Moshe paid heed to the voice of his khoten, and did all that he had said. 
And Moshe chose anshei chayil out of kol Yisroel, and made them rashim over HaAm, over thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens. 
And they judged HaAm at all times; the davar hakasheh (difficult case) they brought unto Moshe, but every devar hakaton they judged themselves. 
And Moshe let his khoten depart; and he went his way into his own land. 
