1 Corinthians.
Chapter 8.
Now concerning the sacrifice to an elil (idol in avodah zarah, idol worship), we know that “we all possess da'as (knowledge).” But da'as puffs up (with ga'avah), but ahavah (agape) builds up. 
If anyone presumes he has da'as of anything, he does not yet have da'as of the necessary da'as. 
But if a person has Ahavas Hashem, Hashem has da'as of that person. 
Now concerning the eating of the okhel (food) at the mizbe'ach of avodah zarah which is sacrificed to an elil (idol), we have da'as that an elil is nothing in the world, and that there is no G-d but ECHAD. 
For even if there are so-called “g-ds,” whether in Shomayim or on ha'aretz, even as there are so-called “g-ds” many and “l-rds” many, 
Yet in fact for us we have da'as that there is ADONOI ECHAD (L-rd is One),Hashem AV ECHAD L'CHULLANU (One Father of us all), from whom are all things, and we exist for Hashem, and there is Adon Echad, Moshiach Yehoshua, through whom are all things and we through him. 
However, not kol Bnei Adam have this da'as (knowledge). Some are so accustomed to the elil (idol) until now that when they eat, they think of the okhel (food) as being sacrificed to the elil in avodah zarah, and their matzpun (conscience), being weak, is made to be tameh (defiled). 
But okhel (food) will not usher us into the presence of Hashem; neither are we falling short if we do not eat okhel, nor are we better if we eat. 
But beware lest somehow your cherut (freedom) becomes a michshol (stumbling block) to the weak ones. 
For if anyone sees you, the one having da'as (knowledge), eating in the temple of an elil, will not the matzpun of him be strengthened so as to eat the okhel sacrificed to an elil (idol) at the mizbe'ach of avodah zarah? 
For the one being weak in emunah is being destroyed by your “da'as,” the Ach b'Moshiach for whom Moshiach died. 
And thus by sinning against the Achim b'Moshiach and wounding their weak matzpunim (consciences), you commit averos against Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
Therefore, if okhel causes my Ach b'Moshiach to trip on a michshol, I should never eat meat again, lest I cause my Ach b'Moshiach to stumble. 
