BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 27.
Then came the Banot Tzelophechad Ben Chepher Ben Gil'ad Ben Machir Ben Menasheh, of the Mishpekhot Menasheh Ben Yosef: and these are the shmot of his banot: Machlah, No'ah, and Choglah, and Milcah, and Tirtzah. 
And they stood before Moshe, and before El'azar HaKohen, and before the Nasiim and kol HaEdah, by the petach Ohel Mo'ed, saying, 
Avinu died in the midbar, and he was not in the edah hano'adim (assembly of ones banding together) against Hashem in the Adat Korach; but died in his own chet, and had no banim. 
Why should the shem avinu be withdrawn from among his Mishpakhat, because he hath no ben? Give unto us therefore achuzzah among the achei avinu. 
And Moshe brought their mishpat before Hashem. 
And Hashem spoke unto Moshe, saying, 
The Banot Tzelophechad speak right; thou shalt surely give them achuzzat nachalah among achei avihem; and thou shalt cause the nachalat avihen to pass over unto them. 
And thou shalt speak unto the Bnei Yisroel, saying, If an ish die, and have no ben, then ye shall cause his nachalah to pass over unto his bat. 
And if he have no bat, then ye shall give his nachalah unto his achim. 
And if he have no achim, then ye shall give his nachalah unto achei aviv. 
And if his av have no achim, then ye shall give his nachalah unto his closest relative of his Mishpakhat, and he shall possess it; and it shall be unto the Bnei Yisroel a chukkat mishpat, as Hashem commanded Moshe. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Get thee up on this har haAvarim, and see HaAretz which I have given unto the Bnei Yisroel. 
And when thou hast seen it, thou also shalt be gathered unto thy people, as Aharon achicha was gathered. 
For ye rebelled against My command in the Midbar Tzin, in the merivat HaEdah (strife of the Assembly) to honor Me as Kodesh before their eyes at the mayim: that is, the mayim of Merivah in Kadesh in the Midbar Tzin. 
And Moshe spoke unto Hashem, saying, 
Let Hashem Elohei HaRuchot L'khol Basar appoint an Ish over HaEdah, 
Which will go out before them, and which will come in before them, and which will lead them out, and which will bring them in; that the Adat Hashem be not like tzon which have no ro'eh. 
And Hashem said unto Moshe, Take thee Yehoshua Ben Nun, an ish in whom is the Ruach, and lay thine yad upon him; 
And stand him before El'azar HaKohen, and before kol HaEdah and give him a charge before their eyes. 
And thou shalt lay of thine hod (dignity, authority, majesty) upon him, so that kol Adat Bnei Yisroel will obey. 
And he shall stand before El'azar HaKohen, who shall ask counsel for him after the mishpat HaUrim before Hashem: at his word shall they go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he, and kol Bnei Yisroel with him, even kol HaEdah. 
And Moshe did just as Hashem commanded him; and he took Yehoshua, and stood him before El'azar HaKohen, and before kol HaEdah: 
And he laid his yadayim upon him, and gave him a charge, just as Hashem commanded by yad Moshe. 
