DANIEL.
Chapter 4.
I, Nevukhadnetzar, was at rest in mine bais, and prospering in my heikhal (palace). 
I saw a chalom (dream) which made me afraid, and the thoughts upon my bed and the chazonot (visions) of my head troubled me. 
Therefore made I a decree to bring in all the chachamim of Babylon before me, that they might give me da'as of the pesher (interpretation, explanation) of the chalom (dream). 
Then came in the magicians, the enchanters, the Kasdim (Chaldeans), and the soothsayers; and I told the chalom (dream) before them; but they did not make known unto me the pesher thereof. 
But at the last Daniel came in before me, whose name was Beltshatzar, according to hashem of my G-d, and in whom is the Ruach Elohin Kadishin (Ruach Elohim HaKadosh); and before him I told the chalom (dream), saying, 
O Beltshatzar, chief of the magicians, because I know that the Ruach Elohin Kadishin (Ruach Elohim HaKadosh) is in thee, and no raz (secret, mystery) troubleth thee, tell me the visions of my chalom (dream) that I have seen, and the pesher thereof. 
Thus were the chazonot of mine head in my bed; I was looking, and hinei, an etz (tree) in the midst of the earth, and the height thereof was great. 
The etz grew, and was strong, and the height thereof reached unto Shomayim, and visibility thereof extended to the end of kol ha'aretz; 
The leaves thereof were lovely, and the p'ri thereof abundant, and in it was food for all; the beasts of the field found shade under it, and the fowls of the heaven dwelt in the boughs thereof, and kol basar was fed of it. 
I saw in the chazonot of my head upon my bed, and, hinei, an ir (watcher, messenger), a malach hakodesh, came down from Shomayim. 
He cried with strength, and said thus, Chop down the tree, and cut off his branches, strip off his leaves, and scatter his p'ri; let the beasts get away from under it, and the fowls from his branches. 
Nevertheless leave the stump of his roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and bronze, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven, and let him partake with the beasts in the grass of ha'aretz; 
Let his lev (heart) be changed from manʼs, and let a beastʼs lev be given unto him; and let seven times (seasons, years) pass over him. 
This matter is by the decree of the irin (watchers), and the demand by the word of the Kedoshim (holy ones), to the intent that the living may have da'as that Elyon (Most High) ruleth in the malchut haAdam, and giveth it to whomsoever He will, and setteth up over it the basest of men. 
This chalom (dream) I, king Nevukhadnetzar, have seen. Now thou, O Beltshatzar, declare the pesher (interpretation, explanation) thereof, forasmuch as all the chachamim of my malchut are not able to make known unto me the pesher (interpretation, explanation); but thou art able; for the Ruach Elohin Kadishin (Ruach Elohim HaKadosh) is in thee. 
Then Daniel, whose name was Beltshatzar, was perplexed for a time, and his thoughts troubled him. The king spoke, and said, Beltshatzar, let not the chalom (dream), or the pesher (interpretation, explanation) thereof, trouble thee. Beltshatzar answered and said, Mari (my master), if only the chalom (dream) concerned them that hate thee, and the pesher (interpretation, explanation) thereof thine enemies. 
The etz that thou sawest, which grew, and was strong, whose height reached unto Shomayim, and the visibility thereof extended to kol ha'aretz; 
Whose leaves were lovely, and the p'ri thereof abundant, and in it was food for all; under which the beasts of the field dwelt, and upon whose branches the fowls of heaven had their habitation; 
It is thou, O king, that art grown and become strong; for thy greatness is grown, and reacheth unto Shomayim, and thy dominion to the end of ha'aretz. 
And whereas the king saw an ir (watcher), a malach hakodesh, come down from Shomayim, and saying, Chop the etz down, and destroy it; yet leave the stump of the roots thereof in the earth, even with a band of iron and bronze, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven, and let him partake with the beasts of the field, till seven times (seasons, years) pass over him. 
This is the pesher (interpretation, explanation), O king, and this is the decree of Elyon (Most High), which is come upon mari (my master) the king; 
That they shall drive thee from anashim, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field, and they shall make thee to eat grass as oxen, and they shall wet thee with the dew of heaven, and seven times (seasons, years) shall pass over thee, till thou have da'as that Elyon (Most High) ruleth in the malchut haAdam, and giveth it to whomsoever He will. 
And whereas they commanded to leave the stump of the etz with its roots, thy malchut shall be assured unto thee, after that thou shalt have da'as that Shomayim (G-d) does rule. 
Wherefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee, and break off thy sins by tzedek (righteousness), and thine iniquities by showing mercy to the poor; if it may be a prolonging of thy tranquillity. 
All this came upon the king Nevukhadnetzar. 
At the end of twelve months he walked about the heikhal of the malchut of Babylon. 
The melech spoke, and said, Is not this great Babylon, that I have built for a royal dwelling by the might of my power, and for the honor of my majesty? 
While the word was in the kingʼs mouth, there fell a voice from Shomayim, saying, O king Nevukhadnetzar, to thee it is spoken: The malchut has been taken from thee. 
And they shall drive thee from anashim, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field; they shall make thee to eat grass as oxen, and seven times (seasons, years) shall pass over thee, until thou have da'as that Elyon ruleth in the malchut haAdam, and giveth it to whomsoever He will. 
The same hour was the thing fulfilled upon Nevukhadnetzar, and he was driven from anashim, and did eat grass as oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven, till his hair had grown like eaglesʼ feathers, and his nails like birdsʼ claws. 
And at the end of the time, I, Nevukhadnetzar, lifted up mine eyes unto Shomayim, and mine da'as returned unto me, and I said Baruch El Elyon, and I praised and honored Him that liveth forever, Whose dominion is an everlasting dominion, and His Malchut is from dor v'dor; 
And all the inhabitants of ha'aretz are considered as nothing, and He doeth according to His will in the Tzivos HaShomayim, and among the inhabitants of ha'aretz; and none can restrain His hand, or say unto Him: What doest Thou? 
At the same time my da'as returned unto me; and for the kavod of my malchut, mine honor and splendor returned unto me; and my counselors and my nobles sought unto me; and I was established in my malchut, and excellent majesty was added unto me. 
Now I Nevukhadnetzar praise and extol and honor the Melech HaShomayim, all Whose works are emes, and His ways mishpat; and those that walk in ga'avah (pride) He is able to abase. 
