LUKAS.
Chapter 8.
And it came about afterwards that he was traveling through every shtetl and village darshenen and proclaiming the Besuras HaGeulah of the Malchut Hashem; and the Shneym Asar were with Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach. 
And there were some nashim who had received refuah from ruchot raot and machlot: Miryam (called Magdalit), from whom shivah shedim had gone out; 
And Yochanah the wife of Kuza, the steward of Herod; Shoshanah, and many others who were giving maamadot (contributions) for Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach from their private means. 
Now when a large multitude was coming together and the ones in every shtetl were making their derech to him, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach spoke by way of a mashal: 
The one sowing went out to sow his seed; and as he sows, some seed fell beside the road; and it was trampled upon, and the birds of the air devoured it. 
And other seed fell upon the rock, and as soon as it grew up, it dried up because it has no moisture. 
And other seed fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up with it and choked it. 
And other seed fell in the adamah tovah (good ground) and, having grown up, produced pri a hundredfold. As Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said these things, he was calling out, The one having oznayim (ears) to hear, let him hear. 
Now Rebbe Melech HaMoshiachʼs talmidim began questioning him as to what this mashal might be. 
And he said, To you it has been granted to have daas of the razei Malchut Hashem(mysteries of the Kingdom of G-d), but to the others I speak in mashalim, in order that YIRU they may not see and VSHIMU they may not have binah. 
Now the mashal is this: The seed is the dvar Hashem. 
The ones beside the road are the ones having heard, then HaSatan comes and takes away the dvar Hashem from their levavot, so that they may not have emunah (faith) and come to Yeshu'at Eloheinu. 
Now the ones upon the rock are those who when they hear, with simcha they receive the dvar; but these have no shoresh (root). They have emunah for a while, but in time of nisayon (trial, temptation), they become shmad and they fall away. 
Now the seed which fell among thorns, these are the ones who have heard, and as they go on their derech, they are choked by the deagot (worries, anxieties) and ashires (riches) and taanugot (pleasures) of the Olam Hazeh and they bring no pri to maturity. 
Now the one in the adamah tova (good ground), these are those who have heard the dvar Hashem with a lev (heart) tov and yashir (straight), and retain the dvar Hashem and bear pri with savlanut (patience). 
Now no one having lit a menorah covers it with a jar or places it under a bed; but he places the menorah on the shulchan, in order that the ones entering may see the ohr (light). 
For nothing is nistar (hidden) which will not become nikar (evident), nor anything hidden which shall not be made known and come to ohr (light). 
Therefore, be shomer how you listen, for whoever has, to him shall more be given; and whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has shall be taken away from him. 
And the Em of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and his achim came to him, and they were not able to get to him because of the multitude. 
And it was announced to him, Your Em and your achim have been standing outside waiting to see you. 
But in reply, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said to them, My Em and my achim are these: the ones who are shomei dvar Hashem(hearers of the word of Hashem) and also shomrei dvar Hashem(keepers guarding, doing the word of Hashem). 
Now it came about on one of those yamim when he and his talmidim embarked into a sirah that he said to them, Let us go over to the other side of the lake. And they launched out. 
But as they were sailing, he fell asleep; and a driving storm of wind descended upon the lake, and they began to be swamped and began to be in a situation of pikuach nefesh (a matter of life and death). 
And they came and woke him up, saying, Adoneinu, Adoneinu, we are perishing! And having been awakened, he rebuked the wind and the rough waves, and the storm ceased. And all became calm. 
And Moshiach said to them, Where is your emunah? And they were fearful and amazed, saying to one another, Who then is this, that he commands even the winds and the sea and they obey him? 
And they sailed down to the country of the Gerasenes, which is opposite the Galil. 
And as Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach disembarked upon the shore, he was met from the town by a certain ish possessed by shedim; and the ish had not worn clothing for a long time and was not living in a bais but among the kevarim (graves). 
And having seen Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach and having cried out, he fell down before him and said in a kol gadol, Mah li ulchah, Yehoshua Ben El Elyon? (What to me and to you, Yehoshua Son of the Most High G-d?) I beg you, do not torment me. 
For Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach had been commanding the ruach hatumah (unclean spirit, shed) to come out of the ish. For many times it had seized him; and he was restrained with chains and imprisoned by shackles and, breaking apart the bonds, he was being driven by the shed into the wilderness places. 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach questioned him, What is your name? And he said, Legion. For many shedim had entered him. 
And the shedim were entreating Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach, lest he might command them to depart into the abyss. 
Now there was a herd of many chazirim feeding there on the mountain. And the shedim begged him that he might permit them to enter into those chazirim. And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach permitted the shedim. 
And the shedim came out from the ish, and entered the chazirim, and the herd of chazirim rushed down the bank into the lake, and were drowned. 
And when the herdsmen saw what had happened, they fled and reported it in the ir (town) and countryside. 
And the people went out to see what had happened; and they came to him and found the ish from whom the shedim had gone out, and the ish was clothed and in his right mind, sitting at the feet of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach; and they were afraid. 
And the edei reiyah reported to the people how the one possessed with shedim was given refuah. 
And all the multitude of the surrounding country of the Gerasenes asked Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach to depart from them; because they were being filled with pachad gadol. So he embarked into a sirah and returned. 
And the ish from whom the shedim had gone out was begging Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach that he might accompany him. But he sent him away, saying, 
Return to your bais and tell what great things G-d has done for you. And the man went away, preaching throughout the whole town, what great things Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach had done for him. 
Now Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach returns, and the multitude gave him kabbalat panim, for they had all been expecting him. 
And hinei there came an ish named Ya'ir and this one was one of the Roshei Beit HaKnesset, and he fell at the feet of Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach, pleading with him to come to his bais; 
For he had a bat yachidah (only daughter) about twelve years in age, and she was dying. But as Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach went, the multitudes were pressing around him, 
And an isha having a flow of dahm for twelve years, and who had spent all she had on rofim (physicians) but could not receive refuah from anyone, 
Approached Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach from behind, and she touched the tzitzit of his garment; and ofen ort (immediately) the flow of her dahm stopped. 
And Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach said, Who is the one who touched me? And while everyone was denying it, Kefa said, Adoneinu, the multitudes surround you and are pressing against you. 
But he said, Someone did touch me, for I had daas that koach had gone out from me. 
And when the isha saw that she had not escaped notice, she came trembling and fell down before him, and declared before the people the reason she touched him, and how ofen ort (immediately) she received refuah. 
And he said to her, Biti (my daughter), your emunah brought your refuah. L'chi l'shalom (Go in shalom). 
While he was still speaking, someone comes from the bais (house) of the Rosh Kehillah Yair, saying, Your bat has died. Do not cause a shter (bother) for the rebbe. 
But when he heard this, he answered him, Do not be afraid; only have emunah, and she will receive refuah. 
And having come to the bais, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach did not permit anyone to enter with him, except Kefa and Yochanan and Ya'akov, and the yaldahʼs Abba and Em. 
And all were weeping and mourning for the yaldah; but he said, Stop weeping, for she has not died, but is sleeping. 
And they were making leitzonus (fun) of him, having had daas that she was a nifteret (a deceased person). 
But Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach took her by the hand and called out, saying, Yaldah, get up! 
And her ruach returned, and she got up ofen ort and Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach gave orders that something be given to her to eat. 
And her horim (parents) were amazed; but Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach instructed them to tell no one what had happened. 
