DEVARIM.
Chapter 16.
Be shomer of the month of Aviv, and perform the Pesach offering unto Hashem Eloheicha; for in the month of Aviv Hashem Eloheicha brought thee forth out of Mitzrayim by lailah. 
Thou shalt therefore sacrifice the Pesach unto Hashem Eloheicha, of the tzon and the herd, in the place which Hashem shall choose to place Shmo there. 
Thou shalt eat no chametz with it; shivat yamim shalt thou eat matzot therewith, even the lechem oni (bread of affliction); for thou camest forth out of Eretz Mitzrayim in haste in order that thou mayest remember the yom when thou camest forth out of Eretz Mitzrayim kol yemei chayyechah (all the days of thy life). 
And there shall be no se'or (leaven) seen with thee in all thy territory shivat yamim; neither shall there any thing of the basar, which thou sacrificedst ba'Erev baYom HaRishon, remain overnight until the boker. 
Thou mayest not sacrifice the Pesach within any of thy she'arim, which Hashem Eloheicha giveth thee; 
But at the place which Hashem Eloheicha shall choose to place Shmo in, there thou shalt sacrifice the Pesach at erev, at the going down of the shemesh, at the mo'ed (appointed time) that thou camest forth out of Mitzrayim. 
And thou shalt roast and eat it in the place which Hashem Eloheicha shall choose; and thou shalt turn back in the boker, and go unto thy oholim. 
Sheshet yamim thou shalt eat matzot; and on the yom hashevi'i shall be an atzeret (assembly) to Hashem Eloheicha; thou shalt do no melachah (work) therein. 
Shivah shavu'ot (seven weeks) shalt thou number unto thee; begin to number the shivah shavu'ot from such time as thou begin to put the sickle to the standing crop. 
And thou shalt observe Chag Shavuos unto Hashem Eloheicha by giving a terumah (freewill offering) of thine hand, which thou shalt give unto Hashem Eloheicha, according as Hashem Eloheicha hath blessed thee: 
And thou shalt rejoice before Hashem Eloheicha, thou, and thy ben, and thy bat, and thy eved, and thy amah, and the Levi that is within thy she'arim, and the ger, and the yatom (orphan), and the almanah, that are among you, in the place which Hashem Eloheicha hath chosen to place Shmo there. 
And thou shalt remember that thou wast an eved in Mitzrayim: and thou shalt be shomer and do these chukkim. 
Chag HaSukkot shalt thou observe shivat yamim, after that thou hast gathered in from thy threshing floor and from thy winepress: 
And thou shalt rejoice in thy chag (feast), thou, and thy ben, and thy bat, and thy eved, and thy amah, and the Levi, the ger, and the yatom (orphan), and the almanah, that are within thy she'arim. 
Shivat yamim shalt thou observe the chag (feast) unto Hashem Eloheicha in the place which Hashem shall choose, because Hashem Eloheicha shall bless thee in all thine increase, and in all the works of thine hands, so that thou shalt surely rejoice. 
Shalosh pe'amim bashanah shall all thy males appear before Hashem Eloheicha in the place which He shall choose; in the Chag Matzot, and in the Chag HaShavu'os, and in the Chag HaSukkot, and they shall not appear before Hashem empty-handed: 
Every man shall give as he is able, according to the Birkat Hashem Eloheicha which He hath given thee. 
Shofetim and shoterim shalt thou appoint thee in all thy she'arim, which Hashem Eloheicha giveth thee, throughout thy shevatim: and they shall judge HaAm with mishpat-tzedek. 
Thou shalt not pervert mishpat; thou shalt not show partiality, neither take a shochad: for a bribe doth blind the eyes of the chachamim, and twist the devarim of the tzaddikim. 
Tzedek tzedek (that which is altogether just) shalt thou follow, that thou mayest live, and inherit ha'aretz which Hashem Eloheicha giveth thee. 
Thou shalt not plant any tree as an Asherah near unto the Mizbe'ach of Hashem Eloheicha, which thou shalt make thee. 
Neither shalt thou set thee up any matzeivah (idolatrous pillar); which Hashem Eloheicha hateth. 
