TEHILLIM.
Chapter 118.
O give thanks unto Hashem; for He is tov; Ki l'olam chasdo (for His mercy endureth forever). 
Let Yisroel now say, Ki l'olam chasdo. 
Let the Bais Aharon now say, Ki l'olam chasdo. 
Let them now that fear Hashem say, Ki l'olam chasdo. 
I called upon Hashem in distress; Hashem answered me, and set me in a broad place. 
Hashem is on my side; I will not fear; what can adam do unto me? 
Hashem taketh my part through them that help me; therefore shall I see my desire upon them that hate me. 
It is better to trust in Hashem than to put confidence in adam. 
It is better to trust in Hashem than to put confidence in nedivim (nobles). 
All Goyim surrounded me; but in the Shem Hashem will I cut them off. 
They surrounded me; yes, they compassed me about; but in the Shem Hashem I will cut them off. 
They compassed me about like devorim (bees); they are extinguished like the eish of kotzim (thorns); for in the Shem Hashem I will cut them off. 
Thou hast hard pushed at me that I fell; but Hashem helped me. 
Hashem is my oz (strength) and zimrah (song), and He is become my Yeshu'ah (salvation). 
The voice of rejoicing and Yeshu'ah (salvation) is in the ohalim of the tzaddikim; the Yamin Hashem doeth valiantly. 
The Yamin Hashem is exalted; the Yamin Hashem doeth valiantly. 
I shall not die, but live, and declare the ma'asim (works) of Hashem. 
Hashem hath hard chastened me severely; but He hath not given me over unto mavet (death). 
Open to me the sha'arei tzedek; I will go through them, and I will praise Hashem; 
This is the sha'ar of Hashem, into which the tzaddikim shall enter. 
I will praise Thee; for Thou hast heard me, and art become my Yeshu'ah (salvation). 
The Even (Stone) which the Bonim (Builders) rejected has become the Rosh Pinnah (Cornerstone). 
This is Hashemʼs doing; it is marvellous in our eyes. 
This is the yom which Hashem hath made; let us rejoice and be glad in it. 
Save now, we beseech Thee, Hashem; Hashem, we beseech thee, send now prosperity. 
Baruch habah b'Shem Hashem; we have blessed you from the Beis Hashem. 
Hashem is G-d, Who hath showed us light; bind the chag (festival offering) with cords, even until the karnot of the Mizbe'ach. 
Thou art my G-d, and I will praise Thee; Thou art Elohai, I will exalt Thee. 
O give thanks unto Hashem; for He is tov; ki l'olam chasdo (for His mercy endureth forever). 
