YOCHANAN.
Chapter 4.
Therefore when Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach knew that the Perushim heard that he makes more talmidim and administers the tevilah of teshuva to more talmidim than Yochanan, 
Although Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach himself did not personally administer the mikveh mayimʼs tevilah — this was administered by his talmidim, 
Then Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach left the land of Yehudah and departed again into the Galil. 
And it was necessary for him to pass through Shomron. 
Therefore, he comes into a city of Shomron being called Sh'khem near the field which Ya'akov Avinu had given to Yosef Ben Ya'akov. 
Now a be'er (well) of Ya'akov was there. Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, having become weary from his journey was sitting there at the be'er. The sha'ah (hour, time) was about hashishit (the sixth, noon). 
An isha of Shomron comes to draw mayim. Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to her, Give me a drink. 
For Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiachʼs talmidim had gone away into the city that they might buy okhel. 
Therefore, the isha of Shomron says to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, How can you, being a Yehudi, ask to be given a drink from me, an isha (woman) from Shomron (Samaria)? (For those who are Yehudim do not associate with those of Shomron). 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to her, If you knew the matanah (gift) of Hashem and who it is saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you Mayim Chayyim (Living Water). 
The isha (woman) says to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Adoni, you have no bucket and the be'er is deep. From where then do you have the Mayim Chayyim? 
Surely you are not greater than Ya'akov Avinu who gave the matanah to us of the be'er (well) and drank from it himself as did his banim (sons) and his tzon (flock)? 
In reply, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Everyone drinking from this mayim (water) will thirst again, 
But whoever drinks of the mayim (water) which I will give to him will never thirst again, but the mayim (water) which I will give him will become in him a makor(fountain) of mayim(water) springing up unto Chayyei Olam. 
The isha (woman) says to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Adoni, give me this mayim that I may not thirst nor come here to draw mayim. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to her, Go, call your ba'al (husband), and come back here. 
In reply, the isha (woman) said to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, I do not have a ba'al. He says to her, Well you spoke, I do not have a ba'al. 
For beetzem (in fact) chamisha be'alim (five husbands) you had, and the one you have now is not your ba'al (husband). What you have said is emes. 
The isha says to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Adoni, I see that you are a navi. 
Avoteinu on this mountain worshiped and you say that in Yerushalayim is the place where it is necessary to worship. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to her, Have emunah (faith), believe me, Isha. A sha'ah (hour, time) comes when neither on this mountain nor in Yerushalayim will you worship HaAv. 
You worship that of which you do not have da'as; we worship that of which we have da'as, because Yeshu'at Eloheinu (salvation) is from the Yehudim. 
But a sha'ah is coming, and now is, when those of the true avodas kodesh will worship HaAv in the Ruach Hakodesh and in Emes, for indeed Elohim HaAv is seeking such to worship Him. 
Hashem is Ruach (Spirit) and it is necessary for the ones worshiping Him to worship in Ruach and Emes. 
The isha says to him, I have da'as that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach is coming, the one being called the Messiah. When Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach comes, he will proclaim to us everything. 
Yehoshua says to her, Ani Hu (I am He), the one speaking to you. 
And at this very moment, the Moshiachʼs talmidim arrived, and they were marveling that he was speaking with an isha. No one said, however, What are you seeking? Or, Why do you speak with her? 
Therefore, the isha left her waterpot and went away into the city and says to the bnei Adam of the city, 
Come, see an ish who told me everything I have ever done. Surely this one is Moshiach, is he not? 
They came out of the city and were coming to him. 
Divaile (meanwhile), Moshiachʼs talmidim were asking him, Rebbe, eat. 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, I have okhel (food) to eat of which you have no da'as. 
Therefore, Moshiachʼs talmidim were saying to one another, Surely no one brought him anything to eat? 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, My okhel (food) is that I may do the ratzon (will) of the One having sent me and may complete His ma'aseh (work). 
Do not say, Yet arba'ah chodashim (four months) and then comes the katzir (harvest). Hinei, I say to you, Lift up your eyes and see the sadot (fields) that they are white for the katzir (harvest). 
The one harvesting receives wages and gathers p'ri (fruit) unto Chayyei Olam, that the one sowing and the other one harvesting may have simcha together. 
For in this the saying is true, One sows and another reaps. 
I sent you to harvest that upon which you have not labored; others have labored and you have entered into their labor. 
And from that city of Shomron many had emunah in him, because of the solemn dvar of the isha giving edut: He told me everything I have ever done. 
Then when those of Shomron came to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, they were asking him to remain with them, and he remained with them there two yamim. 
And many more put their emunah in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, because of his dvar (word). 
And to the isha they were saying, No longer because of what you spoke do we have emunah (faith), for we ourselves have heard and we have da'as that his one is be'emes the Moshi'a HaOlam (the Savior, Go'el HaOlam). 
And after two yamim (days), he went out from there into the Galil. 
For Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach himself gave solemn edut (testimony) that a Navi does not have kavod (honor) in his own country. 
Therefore, when he came into the Galil, those of the Galil received Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, vi-bahlt (since) they had seen all which he did in Yerushalayim during the Chag, for they also went to the Chag. 
Then Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach came again into Kanah of the Galil where he made the mayim (water) into yayin (wine). There was a certain royal official whose ben was choleh (ill) in K'far-Nachum. 
This man, having heard that Yehoshua comes from the land of Yehudah into the Galil, went to him and was asking him to come down and cure the ben of him. For the yeled was about to die. 
Therefore, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Except you see otot (miraculous signs) and moftim (wonders), you will never have emunah (faith). 
The royal official says to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Adoni, come down before my yeled dies. 
Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to him, Go! Bincha chai (your son lives)! The man had emunah (faith) in the dvar that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach had said to him, and the man departed. 
And as the man was going, his avadim met him, saying that the manʼs yeled lives. 
Therefore, the man inquired from them the sha'ah (hour, time) in which the yeled began to recover. Then they said to him, Etmol (yesterday) at the sha'ah hashevi'it (seventh hour) the fever left him. 
Therefore, the abba knew that it was the same sha'ah (hour, time) in which Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to him, Bincha chai! And the man had emunah and all his bais. 
Now this was ot hasheni (the second miraculous sign) that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach did after having come from the land of Yehudah to the Galil. 
