MISHLE.
Chapter 26.
As sheleg (snow) in kayitz (summer), and as matar (rain) at katzir (harvest), so kavod is not fitting for a kesil (fool). 
As the tzippor in its fluttering, as the swallow in its flying, so the kelelah (curse) without cause shall not alight. 
A shot (whip) for the sus, a bridle for the chamor, and a shevet for the back of kesilim. 
Answer not a kesil (fool) according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him. 
Answer a kesil (fool) according to his folly, lest he be chacham in his own eyes. 
He that sendeth a message by the yad of a kesil (fool) cutteth off the raglayim, and drinketh chamas. 
The legs of the pisei'ach (lame man) hang limp; so is a mashal in the peh (mouth) of kesilim. 
As he that bindeth an even (stone) in a sling, so is he that giveth kavod to a kesil (fool). 
As a thornbush goeth up into the yad of a shikkor, so is a mashal in the peh (mouth) of kesilim. 
Like an archer wounding all, so is he that hireth the kesil (fool), or hireth the passerby. 
As a kelev returneth to his vomit, so a kesil (fool) returneth to his folly. 
Seest thou an ish chacham in his own eyes? There is more tikvah (hope) for a kesil (fool) than for him. 
The atzel (sluggard, lazy one) saith, There is a lion in the derech; an ari is in the rechovot. 
As the delet (door) turneth upon its hinges, so doth the atzel (sluggard, lazy one) upon his mittah (bed). 
The atzel (sluggard, lazy one) hideth his yad in his dish; itʼs too tiring to bring it back to his peh (mouth) again. 
The atzel (sluggard, lazy one) is chacham in his own eyes, more than seven that give an excellent answer. 
He that passeth by, and meddleth in a quarrel that doth not belong to him, is like one that taketh a kelev by the oznayim. 
As a mad man who shooteth firebrands, khitzim (arrows), and mavet, 
So is the ish that deceiveth his re'a, and saith, Am I not just having a laugh? 
Where no wood is, there the eish goeth out; so where there is no nirgan (gossip, slanderer, talebearer), the strife dieth down. 
As charcoal is to burning coals, and wood to eish; so is a contentious ish to kindle strife. 
The devarim of a nirgan (gossip, slanderer, talebearer) are like tasty morsels, and they go down into the innermost chambers of the beten. 
Fervent sfatayim (lips) and a lev rah are like earthenware covered with silver dross. 
He that hateth disguises it with his sfatayim (lips), and within harboreth mirmah (deceit); 
When he speaketh fair, believe him not; for there are sheva to'avot in his lev. 
Whose hatred is covered by guile, yet his wickedness shall be exposed before the whole kahal. 
He who diggeth a shachat (pit) shall fall therein, and he that rolleth an even (stone), it will roll back upon him. 
A lashon sheker hateth those that are crushed by it; and a flattering peh (mouth) worketh ruin. 
