MARKOS.
Chapter 14.
Now it was two days before Pesach, the Chag HaMatzot. And the Rashei Hakohanim and the Sofrim were seeking how they might by ormah (cunning) do away with Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
For they were saying, Not at the Chag, for fear that a riot break out among the am haaretz. 
And he was in Beit-Anyah at the bais of Shim'on the leper, reclining at tish, and an isha (woman) came, having an alabaster flask of costly perfume, pure nard, and having broken open the alabaster flask, she poured it on the head of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
Now some were there who in ka'as (anger) said to one another, For what reason has this waste of ointment taken place? 
For this was able to be sold for more than three hundred denarii and to be given to the aniyim. And they were reproaching her. 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Leave her alone. Why are you bringing about difficulty for the isha? Has she not performed one of the Gemilut Chasadim on me? 
For always the aniyim you have with you, and when you wish you are able to do ma'asim tovim for them, but me you do not always have. 
With what she had she did all she could. She prepared ahead of time to anoint my basar for the kevurah (burial). 
And, omein, I say to you, wherever the Besuras HaGeulah is proclaimed in kol haaretz, also what this isha did will be spoken in her memory. 
And Yehudah from K'riot, one of the Shneym Asar, went to the Rashei Hakohanim in order that he might betray him to them. 
And there was chedvah (joy, gaiety, rejoicing) with the ones having heard and they gave the havtachah (promise) of a matnat kesef (gift of money) to Yehudah. And he was seeking how he might conveniently betray Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And at the rishon of the Chag HaMatzot, when it was customary to prepare the Pesach Korban for mo'ed zevach, his talmidim say to him, Where do you wish us to go and make the preparations for you to conduct the Seder? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach sends two of his talmidim and he says to them, Go into the city, and you will meet a man carrying a jar of water; follow him; 
And wherever he enters, tell the Baal Bayit that the Rebbe says, Where is my mekom linah where I can conduct the Pesach Seder with my talmidim? 
And he will show you a large aliyyah having been furnished and ready. And there prepare for us. 
And the talmidim went out and they came into the city and found things just as Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach told them, and they made preparations for Pesach. 
And erev having come, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach arrives with the Shneym Asar. 
And while they were at tish in a yechidus, reclining and eating, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Omein, I say to you, that one of you will betray me, OKHEL LACHEMI (the one eating my bread). 
They began to have agmat nefesh (grief), and, one by one, to say to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Surely I am not the one? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, It is one of the Shneym Asar, the one dipping with me into the bowl. 
For the Bar Enosh goes just as it has been written concerning him, but woe to that man through whom the Bar Enosh is betrayed. It would have been better for him if that man had not been born. 
And at Seudah, while they were eating, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, having taken the matzah, having made the HaMotzi, broke the middle matzah, giving the afikoman to Moshiachʼs talmidim, and said, Take and eat, this is my BASAR. 
And having taken the Cup of Redemption and having made the bracha, he gave it to Moshiachʼs talmidim, and everyone drank of it. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, HINEI DAHM HABRIT, the dahm of me, which is being poured out lama'an RABBIM(for the sake of MANY). 
Omein, I say to you, that no longer will I by any means drink of the p'ri hagefen (fruit of the vine) until Yom HaHu when I drink it chadash (new) in the Malchut Hashem. 
And having sung the Hallel, they went out to the Mount of Olives. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, All of you will fall away, for it has been written, I will strike down ES HAROEH UTEFUTEN HATZON (the Shepherd and the sheep will be scattered). 
But after I am made to stand up alive in the Techiyas HaMoshiach, I will go before you into the Galil. 
But Shim'on Kefa said to him, Even if everyone will fall away, yet I will not. 
And he says to him, Omein, I say to you, that you today, balailah hazeh (during this night) before the tarnegol crows twice, you will make hakhchashah (denial) of me shalosh pe'amim (three times). 
But Kefa kept saying with vehemence, If it is necessary for me to die al kiddush ha-Shem for you, by no means will I make hakhchashah of you. And so also everyone declared. 
And they come to a place of which the name was Gat-Shmanim and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to his talmidim, Sit down here while I daven. 
And he takes Kefa and Ya'akov and Yochanan with him and he began to be distressed and to be troubled. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, My agmat nefesh (grief) is great, even to the point of mavet (death). Remain here and stay awake and shomer (on guard). 
And having gone forth a little, he was falling on the ground and was davening that, if it is possible, this shaah (hour) might pass from him. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was saying, Abba, Avi, all things are possible for you. Take away this KOS from me. But not what I will, but what you will. 
And he comes and finds them sleeping, and he says to Shim'on Kefa, Are you sleeping? Did you not have chozek (strength) to stay awake one hour? 
Stay shomer and daven that you may not enter into nisayon (trial, temptation). Indeed the ruach ready but the basar is weak. 
And again he went away and davened the same devarim (words) as before. 
And once again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were falling shut, and they did not have daas of what they might answer him. 
And he comes the shlishit (third) time and says to them, Sleep for the remainder and take your rest. It is enough. The shaah (hour) has come. Hinei, the Bar Enosh is betrayed into the hands of chote'im (sinners). 
Get up, let us go. Hinei, the one betraying me has drawn near. 
And, ofen ort, bishas maise (at the same time) Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach is speaking, Yehudah arrives, one of the Shneym Asar, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs with Rashei Hakohanim and the Sofrim and the Zekenim. 
Now the one betraying Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach had given a signal to them, saying, Whomever I may give the neshikah (kiss), he is the one, chap (seize) him! And lead him away under guard. 
And when he came, he ofen ort approached Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and says, Rebbe. And he gave him the neshikah (kiss). 
And they laid their hands on Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and arrested him. 
But one of those standing by drew his cherev and struck the servant of the Kohen Gadol and cut off his ear. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach answered and said to them, Do you come out with swords and clubs as against a shoded (robber) to arrest me? 
Every day I was with you in the Beis HaMikdash teaching Torah and you did not arrest me; but let the Kitvei Hakodesh be fulfilled. 
And, having left Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, everyone fled. 
And a certain bocher was following along with Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, and the bocher was wearing nothing but a linen garment around his naked body, and they seized the bocher. 
But the bocher ran away naked, leaving the linen garment behind. 
And they led away Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach to the Kohen Gadol. And all the Rashei Hakohanim and the Zekenim and the Sofrim were assembled. 
And Shim'on Kefa from a distance followed Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach right into the courtyard of the Kohen Gadol. And Kefa was sitting together with the servants and warming himself near the ohr of the hadlakah (bonfire). 
And the Rashei Hakohanim and the whole Sanhedrin were seeking edut against Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach in order to have him under the onesh mavet, and they were not finding any. 
For many gave edut sheker against Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, and the eduyot were not in agreement. 
And some, taking the stand, were giving edut sheker (false testimony) against him: 
We heard him saying, I will bring churban to this Beis HaMikdash made with human hands, and, after shlosha yamim, another, not made with hands, I will build. 
So their eduyot were not in agreement. 
And having stood up in their midst, the Kohen Gadol questioned Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, saying, Do you not answer anything to what these bear solemn edut (testimony) against you? 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was silent and did not answer anything. Again the Kohen Gadol was questioning him and says to him, Are you the Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, HaBen Hamevorakh? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Ani hu, and you will see the BAR ENOSH YOSHEV LIMIN HaGevurah UVA IM ANENEI HASHOMAYIM (the Bar Enosh Moshiach sitting at the right hand of power and coming with the clouds of heaven). 
And the Kohen Gadol, making the keriah (ritual tearing) of his tunic, says, What further need do we have of edim (witnesses)? 
You heard him commit Chillul Hashem gidduf (blasphemy). How does it seem to you? And they all condemned Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach to be deserving of mishpat mavet. 
And some began to spit on him and to cover his face and to strike him and to say to him, Letʼs hear a dvar nevuah (word of prophecy)! And the shomrim (guards) took custody of him by slapping Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And Shim'on Kefa being below in the courtyard, one of the maids of the Kohen Gadol comes by. 
And having seen Kefa warming himself, having looked him over, she says, You also were with the one from Natzeret, Yehoshua! 
But he denied it, saying, I do not have daas (knowledge) or binah (understanding) of what you are saying. And he walked away and went outside into the entryway. And a tarnegol crowed. 
And the maid, having seen him, began again to say to the ones standing by, This is one of them! 
But again he made hakhchashah (denial). And after a little while, again the ones having stood by were saying to Kefa, You are one of them, for indeed you are a Gelili (inhabitant of the Galil). 
And Kefa began to speak a klalah (curse) and to swear, I do not have daas of this man I don't know the one of whom you speak! 
And ofen ort for a second time, a tarnegol crowed. And then Kefa remembered the dvar that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach had spoken to him, Before a tarnegol crows twice, shalosh pe'amim (three times) you will make hakhchashah (denial) of me. And having broken down, Kefa was weeping. 
