GEVUROT MEYRUACH HAKODESH.
Chapter 5.
And a certain man by the name Chananyah, with his wife Shappira, sold property, 
And he, with his wife in collusion as to da'as, misappropriated from the price, and having brought a certain part, laid it at the feet of the Moshiachʼs Shlichim. 
But Kefa said, Chananyah, why has HaSatan filled your lev (heart) that you lied to the Ruach Hakodesh and misappropriated from the price of the land? 
While it remained with you, did it not remain yours? And after it was sold, were the proceeds not under your samchut (authority)? How is it that you have hatched this deed in your lev (heart)? Your sheker (lie) was not to Bnei Adam but to Elohim. 
And hearing these devarim, having fallen down, Chananyah died; and there came great yirat Shomayim upon all the ones listening. 
And having got up, the bochrim threw the tachrichin shroud over him and, having carried him out, they buried him in a kever. 
And there was an interval of lav davka (approximately) shloshah sha'ot and then his isha, not having da'as of what had happened, entered. 
And in reply to her, Kefa said, Tell me, you sold the sadeh for such and such a price, did you? And she said, Ken, for such and such a price, that was the amount. 
And Kefa said to her, Why was it agreed by the two of you to put the Ruach Hakodesh of Hashem to the test? Hinei! The feet of the ones having buried your ba'al are at the petach (doorway), and they will carry you out. 
And she fell immediately at his feet and died. And, the bochrim, having entered, found her dead; and, having carried her out, they buried her with her ba'al. 
And there came great yirat Shomayim upon the whole Messianic kehillah and upon all the ones hearing these things. 
Now by the hands of the Moshiachʼs Shlichim were being effected many otot and moftim among the people and with a sense of achdus they were all in the Ulam Sh'lomo. 
But none of the rest was daring to be mishtatef in a chavura (becoming involved, joining a fellowship) with them; however, the Am Yisroel held the Messianic Jews in high esteem. 
And more and more ma'aminim hameshichiyim in Adoneinu were being added, multitudes of anashim and nashim, 
So much so that even out into the rekhovot they would carry the cholim and put them on pallets and mats, that when Kefa came by, at least his shadow might fall upon some of them. 
And also the multitudes from the shtetlach surrounding Yerushalayim were coming together, carrying the cholim and the ones being tormented by ruchot teme'ot (unclean spirits); and they were all receiving refu'ah shleimah. 
But there was an uprising of the Kohen Gadol and all the ones with him of the Tzedukim kat, and they were filled with kinah. 
And they laid their hands upon the Moshiachʼs Shlichim and they put them in a public beis hasohar. 
And a malach Adonoi (an angel of Hashem) opened the doors of the beis hasohar balailah, and having led them out, said, 
Go and stand and speak in the Beis Hamikdash to the people kol divrei HaChayyim haelleh. 
And having heard, the Moshiachʼs Shlichim entered the Beis Hamikdash at Shachrit and were saying shiurim. And when the Kohen Gadol and the ones with him had come, they called together the Sanhedrin and all the assembly of Zekenim of the Bnei Yisroel, and they sent to the beis hasohar for the prisoners to be brought to them. 
But their mesharetim, having come, did not find them in the beis hasohar. And having returned, they reported these things 
Saying, We found the beis hasohar locked tight and the shomrim standing at the doors; but when we opened up, we found no one inside. 
And when the Sar Tzeva HaHeikhal of the Beis Hamikdash and the Rashei Hakohanim heard these words, they were perplexed about them, as far as what would come of all this. 
But someone came and reported to them, Hinei, the men whom you put in the beis hasohar are in the Beis Hamikdash standing and saying shiurim to the people. 
Then the Sar Tzeva HaHeikhal went along with the mesharetim and brought the Moshiachʼs Shlichim back, but not with force — for they feared the people, lest they should be stoned. 
And when they had brought them, they stood the Moshiachʼs Shlichim before the Sanhedrin, and the Kohen Gadol questioned them, 
Saying, Did we not with a strict command charge you not to say shiurim b'shem hazeh and, hinei, you have filled Yerushalayim with your torah and are determined to bring upon us the dahm of this man. 
And in reply Kefa and the Moshiachʼs Shlichim said, It is necessary to obey Hashem rather than Bnei Adam. 
Elohei Avoteinu made Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua to stand up alive again, the very one whom you killed, having made him talui al haEtz (being hanged on the tree). 
This one Hashem exalted as Sar and Moshi'a (Oisleizer) to His right hand to grant teshuva to Yisroel and selicha (forgiveness) of chatta'im (averos, sins). 
And we are the eidus (witness) of these matters and so is the Ruach Hakodesh whom Hashem gave to the ones obeying Him. 
And the ones having heard were cut to the quick and in fury were deciding to do away with them. 
But a certain Parush got up in the Sanhedrin, a moreh of Torah by name Rabban Gamli'el, respected by kol Am Yisroel, and he gave orders to put the men outside for a little while. 
And Rabban Gamli'el said to them, Anshei Yisroel, pay attention to yourselves what you are about to do with these anashim. 
For at an earlier tekufa (era, period), there was the uprising of Theudas, who claimed to be somebody himself, with whom were associated a number of anashim lav davka (approximately) four hundred; who was done away with and as many as were obeying him were all dispersed and it came to nothing. 
After this there was Yehudah HaGalili in the yamim of the census; who misled the people to follow after him and that man perished and, as many as were obeying him, were all scattered. 
And now I say to you, stay away from these anashim, and leave them alone, because if this cheshbon (plan) or this matter is of Bnei Adam, it will be overthrown. 
But if it is from Hashem, you are not able to overthrow them — in that case you may even be found to be fighting keneged (against, opposing)Hashem. And they were persuaded by Rabban Gamli'el. 
And having called together the Moshiachʼs Shluchim and having flogged them, they warned them not to speak in the shem of Yehoshua, and they released them. 
Therefore Moshiachʼs Shluchim were going rejoicing from the presence of the Sanhedrin, that they were considered worthy to suffer shame for ha-Shem (the Name). 
And every day in the Beis Hamikdash and from bais to bais they did not stop saying shiurim and drashot about Yehoshua as Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
