Colossians.
Chapter 3.
If therefore you were made to stand up alive in hitkhadshut with Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, seek the things above, where Moshiach is, LI'MIN ELOHIM, sitting at the right hand of Hashem. 
Place your machshavot (thoughts) above (in Shomayim), not on the things of the Olam Hazeh. 
For you died and the Chayyim of you has become nistar(hidden) with Moshiach in Hashem. 
When Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach who is Chayyeinu (our Life) is made manifest in hisgalus (revelation), then also you with Him will be made manifest in hisgalus in kavod. 
Therefore, put to death your evarim (members) in the Olam Hazeh: zenut (fornication), debauchery, sensuality, zimmah (licentiousness), and chamdanut (covetousness), which is avodah zarah (idolatry). 
Because of such things as these the charon af Hashem habah (the coming burning wrath of Hashem) is on the way. 
Such was your derech to fier zich (comport oneself), the derech resha'im formerly, when you were living in these things. 
But now you also put away all these things: ka'as (anger), rage, kavvanah ra'ah (malice), and chillul Hashem. Put away loshon hora from your mouth. 
Do not speak sheker to one another, having disrobed from the Adam hakadmoni (old humanity) with his ma'asim (works), 
And instead enrobe with the Adam HaChadash, the one being renewed in da'as in accordance with the demut of the One having created him. 
Here there is neither Yevani nor Yehudi, there is neither those who are or are not of the Bris Milah, there is no uncultured non-Greek speaker, there is no Scythian, eved, or Ben Chorin, but rather Moshiach is all in all. 
Therefore, as Bechirim (Chosen ones) of Hashem, Kedoshim and ahuvim, enrobe yourselves in tender feelings of rachmei Shomayim (heavenly compassion, mercy), chesed (lovingkindness), anavah (humility), shiflut (lowliness), and savlanut (longsuffering), 
Being soivel (bearing with) one another and extending selicha (forgiveness) to each other, if it should be that one is murmuring his complaint against another; just as Adoneinu extended selicha to you, so also you should extend selicha. 
And to all these things add ahavah, which is the agudah of tamimim. 
And let the shalom of Moshiach arbitrate in your levavot. You were called to this shalom in one GUF. Let there be todah in your levavot. 
Let the dvar of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach make its mishkan in you richly, in all chochmah and in all Moshiachʼs pnimiyus haTorah (innermost Torah teaching) and words of chizzuk, ministering to one another with Tehillim, shirim, and neshamah niggunim miRuach Hakodesh (soul melodies from the Ruach Hakodesh) with gratitude, singing in your levavot to Hashem. 
And whatever thing you do, whether in dvar or in ma'aseh, do all things b'Shem Adoneinu Yehoshua, giving todot to Elohim HaAv through him. 
Nashim (wives), make yourselves accountable to your ba'alim (husbands), as is proper in Adoneinu. 
Ba'alim, have ahavah for your nashim and do not be bitter against them. 
Yeladim, obey your horim (parents) in all things, for this is well pleasing in Adoneinu. 
Avot, do not provoke your yeladim, lest they be disheartened. 
Avadim (servants), each of you obey in all things your adon according to the basar, not with eye service as pleasers of Bnei Adam, but with tom lev, with yirat Shomayim. 
Whatever you do, be po'alim (workers) who with their neshamah work facing Adoneinu and not Bnei Adam, 
Having da'as that from Adoneinu you will receive the sachar of the nachalah(alloted inheritance). Serve Adoneinu Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
For the one doing wrong will be repaid for his wrong, ki ein masso panim im Hashem(for there is no respect of persons with G-d, no partiality). 
