ESTHER.
Chapter 6.
On that night HaMelechʼs sleep fled away, and he commanded to bring the sefer of records of the chronicles; and they were read before HaMelech. 
And it was found written, that Mordechai had told of Bigtan and Teresh, two of the sarisim of HaMelech, the Mishomrei HaSaf (Keepers of the Door, the Doorkeepers) who conspired to assassinate HaMelech Achashverosh. 
And HaMelech said, What yekar (honor) and what recognition hath been done to Mordechai for this? Then said the servants of HaMelech that ministered unto him, Nothing has been done for him. 
And HaMelech said, Who is in the khatzer (court)? Now Haman was come into the Khatzer HaKhitzonah (Outer Court) of the Beis HaMelech, to speak unto HaMelech lit'lot (to hang) Mordechai on HaEtz that he had erected for him. 
And the servants of HaMelech said unto him, Hinei, Haman standeth in the khatzer. And HaMelech said, Let him come in. 
So Haman came in. And HaMelech said unto him, What shall be done unto the ish whom HaMelech delighteth to show yekar? Now Haman thought in his lev, To whom would HaMelech delight to do yekar more than to myself? 
And Haman answered HaMelech, For the ish HaMelech delighteth to show yekar (honor), 
Let the levush malkhut (royal robe, clothing) be brought which HaMelech has worn, and the sus (horse) that HaMelech rideth upon, and the keter malkhut (royal crown, crest) which is set upon its head, 
And let this levush and sus be delivered to the hand of one of the most noble sarim (princes) of HaMelech, that they may array the ish therewith whom HaMelech delighteth to show yekar, and bring him on horseback through the rechov of the ir, and proclaim before him, Thus shall it be done to the ish whom HaMelech delighteth to show yekar. 
Then HaMelech said to Haman, Make haste, and take the levush and the sus, as thou hast said, and do even so to Mordechai HaYehudi, that sitteth at the Sha'ar HaMelech; leave nothing undone of all that thou hast spoken. 
Then took Haman the levush and the sus, and arrayed Mordechai, and brought him on horseback through the rechov of the ir, and proclaimed before him, Thus shall it be done unto the ish whom HaMelech delighteth to show yekar. 
And Mordechai came again to the Sha'ar HaMelech. But Haman hasted to his bais, having his head covered in evel (mourning). 
And Haman told Zeresh his isha and all his ohavim everything that had befallen him. Then said his chachamim and Zeresh his isha unto him, If Mordechai be of the zera of the Yehudim, before whom thy downfall hast begun, thou shalt not prevail against him, but shalt nafol tipol (surely fall) before him. 
And while they were yet talking with him, came the sarisim of HaMelech, and hasted to bring Haman unto the mishteh (banquet) that Ester had prepared. 
