1 Yochanan.
Chapter 4.
Chaverim, do not believe every ruach. But test the ruchot (spirits), if they be of Hashem, because many nevi'ei sheker have gone out into the Olam Hazeh. 
By this we have da'as of the Ruach Hakodesh of Hashem: every ruach which makes hoda'ah (confession) of Yehoshua, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach as having come in the basar is of Hashem, 
And every ruach which does not make hoda'ah of Yehoshua is not of Hashem. And this is the ruach of the Anti-Moshiach, which you have heard that it is coming; and now it already is in the Olam Hazeh. 
Yeladim, you are of Hashem, and you have overcome them, because greater is the One in you than the one in the Olam Hazeh. 
They are of the Olam Hazeh; therefore, of the Olam Hazeh they speak, and the Olam Hazeh pays heed to them. 
We are of Hashem; the one having da'as of Hashem pays heed to us; he who is not of Hashem does not pay heed to us. From this we have da'as of the Ruach of Emes and the ruach tatu'im (spirit of delusion, error). 
Chaverim, let us have ahavah one for another, because ahavah is of Hashem, and everyone having ahavah has been born of Hashem and has da'as of Hashem. 
The one not having ahavah did not have da'as of Hashem, because Hashem is ahavah. 
By this was made hisgalus of the ahavah of Hashem among us, because Hashem has sent His Ben Yechid into the Olam Hazeh that we may live through Him. 
In this is ahavah, not that we have had ahavah for Hashem, but that Hashem had ahavah for us and gave His Zun fun der Oybershter as a kapporah for chattoteinu. 
Chaverim, if Hashem so had ahavah for us, also we ought to have ahavah one for another. 
No one has ever beheld Hashem. If we have ahavah one for another, G-d makes His ma'on in us and the Ahavas Hashem in us has been made shleimah. 
By this we have da'as that we have our ma'on in Him and He in us, because of the Ruach Hakodesh of Him He has given us. 
And we have beheld and we give solemn hoda'ah that HaAv has sent HaBen as Moshi'a HaOlam (Go'el, Oisleizer). 
Whoever makes hoda'ah (confession) that Yehoshua (Yeshua) is the Zun fun der Oybershter, Hashem makes His ma'on in him and he in Hashem. 
And we have had da'as and emunah in the ahavah which Hashem has for us. Hashem is ahavah. The one making his ma'on in ahavah makes his ma'on in Hashem and Hashem in him. 
By this has the ahavah become shleimah with us, that we may have bitachon in the Yom HaDin, because as that One is, so we are also in the Olam Hazeh. 
Pachad (fear) is not in ahavah, but the ahavah hashleimah casts out pachad, because pachad has to do with pachad of the onesh (punishment) and the one with pachad has not been perfected in ahavah. 
We have ahavah because rishonah He had ahavah for us. 
If anyone says I have ahavah for Hashem and the Ach b'Moshiach he hates, he is a shakran (liar). For the one not having ahavah for the Ach b'Moshiach of him whom he has seen, how can he have ahavah for the Elohim whom he has not seen? 
And this mitzvah we have from Him that the one having ahavah for Hashem should have ahavah also for the Ach b'Moshiach of him. 
