MELACHIM ALEF.
Chapter 3.
And Sh'lomo made an alliance with Pharaoh Melech Mitzrayim, and took Bat Pharaoh as isha, and brought her to Ir Dovid, until he had completed building his Bais (palace), and also the Beis Hashem, and the surrounding chomat Yerushalayim. 
However HaAm were sacrificing in the high places, because there was no Bayit built unto the Shem of Hashem in those days. 
And Sh'lomo loved Hashem, walking in the chukkot Dovid Aviv; however he was sacrificing and burning ketoret at the high places. 
And HaMelech went to Giv'on to sacrifice there; for that was the bamah hagedolah (the great high place); a thousand olot did Sh'lomo offer upon that mizbe'ach. 
In Giv'on Hashem appeared to Sh'lomo in a chalom halailah; Elohim said, Ask what I should give thee. 
And Sh'lomo said, Thou hast showed unto Thy eved Dovid Avi chesed gadol (great mercy), according as he walked before Thee in emes, and in tzedakah, and in yesharah levav (uprightness of heart) with Thee; and Thou hast been shomer to preserve this chesed hagadol for him, that Thou hast given him ben to sit on his kisse, as is this day. 
And now, Hashem Elohai, Thou hast made Thy eved Melech in the place of Dovid Avi; and I am but a na'ar katon (little child); I know not how to go out or come in. 
And Thy eved is in the midst of Thy people which Thou hast chosen, an Am Rav, that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude. 
Give therefore Thy eved a lev shome'a (discerning heart, mind) to govern Thy people, that I may discern between tov and rav; for who is sufficient to judge this Thy so great a people? 
And the davar was pleasing in the eyes of Adonoi, that Sh'lomo had made request of this davar. 
And Elohim said unto him, Because thou hast made request of this davar, and hast not requested for thyself yamim rabbim; neither hast requested osher for thyself, nor hast requested the nefesh of thine oyevim; but hast requested for thyself binah to comprehend mishpat; 
Hinei, I have done according to thy devarim; hinei, I have given thee a discerning lev chacham; so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee. 
And I have also given thee that which thou hast not requested, both osher, and kavod; so that there shall not be any among the Melachim like unto thee all thy yamim. 
And if thou wilt walk in My derakhim, to be shomer over My chukkot and My mitzvot, as Dovid Avicha did walk, then I will lengthen thy yamim. 
And Sh'lomo awoke; and, hinei, it was a chalom! And he returned to Yerushalayim, and stood before the Aron Brit Adonoi, and offered up olot, and offered shelamim, and made a mishteh (feast) for all his avadim. 
Then came there two nashim, that were zonot (harlots, prostitutes) unto HaMelech, and stood before him. 
And the one isha said, O adoni, I and this isha dwell in one bayit; and I was delivered of child with her babayit (in the house). 
And it came to pass the Yom HaShelishi after that I was delivered, that this isha was delivered also: and we were together; there was no zar (stranger, outsider) with us babayit, except we two babayit. 
And this ben haisha died in the lailah; because she had lain upon him. 
And she arose in the middle of the lailah, and took beni (my son) from beside me, while thine amah (handmaid) slept, and laid it in her kheyk (bosom), and laid her ben hamet (dead son) in my kheyk. 
And when I rose in the boker to nurse beni, hinei, met! (dead!) But when I had examined him in the boker, hinei, he was not beni I bore! 
And the isha ha'acheret (other woman) said, Lo (no); but hachai (the living) is beni (my son), and hamet (the dead) is the ben of yours. But this one said, Lo (no), the ben of yours is hamet (the dead one), and beni is hachai! Thus they went on arguing before HaMelech! 
Then said HaMelech, The one saith, This is beni (my son) hachai (the living one), and thy ben is hamet (the dead one); and the other saith, Lo; but the ben of yours is hamet, and beni is hachai. 
And HaMelech said, Bring me a cherev. And they brought the cherev before HaMelech. 
And HaMelech said, Cut the yeled hachai in two, and give half to the one, and half to the other. 
Then spoke unto HaMelech the isha whose was the ben hachai, for her rachamim yearned for her ben, and she said, O adoni, give her the yeled hachai, and in no wise put him to death. But the other said, Let it be neither mine nor thine, but cut him in two! 
Then HaMelech answered and said, Give her the yeled hachai, and in no wise put him to death; she is immo (his mother). 
And kol Yisroel heard of the mishpat (judgment) in which HaMelech had given verdict; and they feared HaMelech; for they saw that the chochmat Elohim was within him, to administer mishpat (justice). 
