YIRMEYAH.
Chapter 48.
Against Moav thus saith Hashem Tzva'os Elohei Yisroel: Hoy (woe, doom) unto Nevo! For it is made havoc; Kiryatayim is shamed and captured; Misgav is shamed and dismayed. 
There shall be no more tehillah (praise) of Moav; in Cheshbon they have plotted ra'ah against it; come, and let us cut it off from being a nation. Also thou shalt be silenced, O Madmein; the cherev shall pursue thee. 
A voice of crying shall be from Choronayim, havoc and shever gadol (great destruction). 
Moav is destroyed; her little ones have caused a cry to be heard. 
For in the Ascent of Luchit continual weeping shall go up; for in the descent of Choronayim the anguished ones have heard a cry of shever (destruction). 
Flee, save your nefesh, and be like Aro'er in the midbar. 
For because thou hast trusted in thy ma'asim (works) and in thy otzarot, thou shalt also be captured; and Kemosh shall go forth into Golus with his kohanim and his sarim together. 
And the destroyer shall come upon every city, and no city shall escape: the emek (valley) also shall perish, and the plain shall be shmad (destroyed), as Hashem hath spoken. 
Give wings unto Moav, that it may flee and get away; for the towns thereof shall be desolate, without any to dwell therein. 
Cursed be he that doeth the work of Hashem remiyyah (deceitfully), and cursed be he that keepeth back his cherev from bloodshed. 
Moav hath been at ease from his youth, and he hath settled on his wine dregs, and hath not been emptied from keli (vessel) to keli, neither hath he gone into Golus: therefore his taste remained in him, and his scent is not changed. 
But, hinei, the days come, saith Hashem, that I will send unto him wine pourers, that shall pour him out, and shall empty his kelim (vessels), and smash their jars. 
And Moav shall be ashamed of Kemosh, just as Bais Yisroel was ashamed of Beit-El, their confidence. 
How say ye: We are gibborim and anshei chayil for the milchamah? 
Moav is destroyed, and gone up out of her towns, and his chosen bochurim are gone down to the slaughter, saith HaMelech Hashem Tzva'os Shmo. 
The calamity of Moav is near at hand, and his affliction hasteth fast. 
All ye that are around him, bemoan him; and all ye that know shmo, say: How is the matteh oz (strong staff) broken, and the beautiful rod! 
Thou Bat that dost inhabit Divon, come down from thy kavod, and sit on parched ground; for the plunderer of Moav shall come upon thee, and he shall destroy thy strongholds. 
O inhabitant of Aro'er, stand by the derech, and watch; ask him that fleeth, and her that escapeth, and say: What has happened? 
Moav is shamed; for it is broken down: wail and cry out; tell ye it in Arnon, that Moav is destroyed. 
And mishpat is come upon the plain; upon Cholon, and upon Yahtzah, and upon Mepha'at, 
And upon Divon, and upon Nevo, and upon Beit-Divlatayim, 
And upon Kiryatayim, and upon Beit-Gamul, and upon Beit-Me'on, 
And upon Keriyot, and upon Botzrah, and upon all the towns of Eretz Moav, far or near. 
The keren of Moav is cut off, and his zero'a is broken, saith Hashem. 
Make ye him drunken; for he magnified himself against Hashem; Moav also shall wallow in his vomit, and he also shall be in derision. 
For was not Yisroel a derision unto thee? Was he found among ganavim (thieves)? For since thou spoke of him, thou dost scornful head wagging. 
O ye that dwell in Moav, leave the towns, and dwell in the rock, and be like the yonah that maketh her nest in the sides of the caveʼs mouth. 
We have heard the ga'on Moav, (he is exceeding proud), his highmindedness, and his conceit, and his ga'avah, and the haughtiness of his lev. 
I know his insolence, saith Hashem; but it shall not be so; his boasts have made nothing right. 
Therefore will I wail for Moav, and I will cry out for all Moav; I shall moan for the anashim of Kir-Charesh. 
O gefen (vine) of Sivmah, I will weep for thee with the weeping of Yazer; thy branches are spread over the yam, they reach even to the yam Yazer; the plunderer is fallen upon thy summer fruits and upon thy vintage. 
And simchah and gladness is taken from the carmel, and from Eretz Moav, and I have caused yayin to fail from the winepresses; none shall tread with shouting; their shouting shall not be joyful shouting. 
From the cry of Cheshbon even unto Elealeh, and even unto Yahatz, have they uttered their voice, from Tzoar even unto Choronayim, as Eglat-Shelishiyah; for the mayim also of Nimrim shall be dried up. 
Moreover I will cause to cease in Moav, saith Hashem, him that offereth in the high places, and him that burneth ketoret to his elohim. 
Therefore Mine lev shall wail for Moav like flutes, and Mine lev shall wail like flutes for the anashim of Kir-Charesh; because the riches that he hath gotten are perished. 
For every rosh shall be shaved, and every zakan (beard) cut: upon all the hands shall be slashes, and upon the loins sackcloth. 
There shall be lamentation generally upon all the gagot (roofs) of Moav, and in the streets thereof; for I have broken Moav like a keli (vessel) wherein is no chefets (pleasure) saith Hashem. 
They shall wail, saying, How is it shattered! How hath Moav turned the back with shame! So shall Moav be a laughingstock and a horror to all them about him. 
For thus saith Hashem: Hinei, one shall fly like the nesher, and shall spread his wings over Moav. 
Keriyot is captured, and the strongholds are taken, and the lev gibborim in Moav at that day shall be as the lev isha in her birth pangs. 
And Moav shall be destroyed from being a people, because he hath magnified himself against Hashem. 
Pachad (fear), and the pakhat (pit), and the pach (snare), shall be upon thee, O inhabitant of Moav, 
He that fleeth from the pachad (terror) shall fall into the pakhat (pit); and he that getteth up out of the pakhat shall be caught in the pach (snare); for I will bring upon it, even upon Moav, the shnat (year of) their pekuddah (visitation), 
They that fled stood under the tzel (shadow) of Cheshbon without ko'ach; for an eish shall come forth out of Cheshbon, and a flame from the midst of Sichon, and shall devour the forehead of Moav, and the crown of the head of the bnei sha'on (sons of tumult). 
Oy be unto thee, O Moav! The people of Kemosh perisheth; for thy banim are taken captives, and thy banot into captivity. 
Yet will I bring again the captives of Moav in the acharit hayamim, saith Hashem. Hinei, the mishpat Moav (judgment of Moab). 
