YECHEZKEL.
Chapter 6.
And the Devar Hashem came unto me, saying, 
Ben Adam, set thy face toward the mountains of Yisroel, and prophesy against them, 
And say, Ye mountains of Yisroel, hear the Devar Adonoi Hashem; Thus saith Adonoi Hashem to the harim (mountains), and to the geva'ot (hills), to the ravines, and to the valleys: Hineni, I, even I, will bring a cherev upon you, and I will destroy your high places. 
And your idolatrous mizbechot shall be decimated, and your incense altars shall be demolished; and I will cast down your slain before your gillulim (idols). 
And I will lay the pigrei Bnei Yisroel (dead bodies of the children of Israel) before their gillulim; and I will scatter your atzmot all around your mizbechot. 
In all your moshevot (dwellings) the towns shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be desolate; that your mizbechot will be laid waste and made desolate, and your gillulim (idols) will be broken and cease, and your incense altars will be cut down, and your ma'asim will be abolished. 
And the chalal (slain) shall fall in the midst of you, and ye shall know that I am Hashem. 
Yet will I leave a remnant, that ye may have some that shall escape the cherev among the Goyim, when ye shall be scattered among the countries. 
And they that escape of you shall remember Me among the Goyim where they shall be carried captive, how I have known hurt by the lev hazoneh of them which turned away from Me, and by their einayot hazonot which went a-whoring after their gillulim; they shall lothe themselves for the ra'ot (evils) which they have committed in all their to'avot. 
And they shall know that I am Hashem, and that I have not served warning el-chinnom (in vain) that I would bring hara'ah hazot upon them. 
Thus saith Adonoi Hashem; strike with thine hand, and stamp with thy regel, and say, Alas for kol to'avot ra'ot Bais Yisroel! For they shall fall by cherev (sword), by ra'av (famine), and by dever (plague). 
He that is far off shall die by dever; and he that is near shall fall by cherev; and he that surviveth and is besieged shall die by ra'av (famine); thus will I accomplish My chemah (fury) upon them. 
Then shall ye know that I am Hashem, when their slain shall be among their gillulim all around their mizbechot, upon every givah ramah (high hill), in all the tops of the harim, and under every spreading tree, and under every leafy elah (oak tree), the makom (place) where they did offer rei'ach nicho'ach to all their gillulim. 
So will I stretch out My yad upon them, and make HaAretz desolate, yes, more desolate than the midbar toward Divlah, in all their moshevot (dwellings); then they shall know that I am Hashem. 
