BAMIDBAR.
Chapter 36.
And the Rashei HaAvot of the Mishpekhot of the Bnei Gil'ad Ben Machir Ben Menasheh, of the Mishpekhot of the Bnei Yosef, came near, and spoke before Moshe, and before the Nasiim Rashei Avot of the Bnei Yisroel, 
And they said, When Hashem commanded adoni to give HaAretz for a nachalah by goral to the Bnei Yisroel, adoni was commanded by Hashem to give the nachalat Tzelophechad achinu unto his banot. 
Now suppose they become married to any of the Bnei Shivtei Bnei Yisroel, and their nachalah be taken from the nachalah of Avoteinu, and be added to the nachalah of the matteh whereunto they marry into; so shall it be taken from the goral of our nachalah. 
And when the Yovel of the Bnei Yisroel shall be, then shall their nachalah be added unto the nachalah of the matteh whereunto they marry into; so shall their nachalah be taken away from the nachalah of the matteh of Avoteinu. 
And Moshe commanded the Bnei Yisroel according to the command of Hashem, saying, The matteh of the Bnei Yosef hath said well. 
This is the thing which Hashem doth command concerning the Banot Tzelophechad, saying, Let them marry to whom they think best; only within the Mishpakhat Matteh Avihem shall they marry. 
So shall not the nachalah of the Bnei Yisroel remove from matteh to matteh; for every ish of the Bnei Yisroel shall keep himself to the nachalat matteh of his Avot. 
And every bat, that possesseth a nachalah in mattot Bnei Yisroel, shall be isha unto one of the mishpakhat matteh of her av, that the Bnei Yisroel may possess every ish the nachalat of his avot. 
Neither shall the nachalah remove from one matteh (tribe) to another matteh (tribe); for the mattot (tribes) of the Bnei Yisroel shall make deveykus every ish to his own nachalah. 
Even as Hashem commanded Moshe, so did the Banot Tzelophechad; 
For Machlah, Tirtzah, and Choglah, and Milcah, and No'ah, the Banot Tzelophechad, became nashim unto bnai dodeihen (sons of their uncles, i.e., cousins); 
And they became nashim into the mishpekhot Bnei Menasheh Ben Yosef, and their nachalah remained in the matteh (tribe) of the mishpakhat of their av. 
These are the mitzvot and the mishpatim, which Hashem commanded by the yad Moshe unto the Bnei Yisroel in the plains of Moav by Yarden near Yericho.
