LUKAS.
Chapter 13.
Now on the same occasion there were some present reporting to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach about the men of the Galil whose blood Pilate mixed with their zevakhim (sacrifices). 
And, in reply, Moshiach said, Do you think that these men of the Galil were greater chote'im (sinners) than all others of the Galil, because they suffered this shud (misfortune)? 
Lo (no), I say, but unless you make teshuva, you will all likewise perish. 
Or do you think that those shmonah asar (eighteen) upon whom the migdal (tower) in Shiloach fell and killed them, do you think that they were greater chote'im (sinners) than all the Bnei Adam living in Yerushalayim? 
Lo (no), I tell you, but unless you make teshuva, you will all likewise perish. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was speaking this mashal. A certain man had an etz te'enah (fig tree) which had been planted in his kerem, and he came seeking pri (fruit) on it, and he did not find any. 
So he said to the keeper of the kerem, Hinei shalosh shanim (three years) I come seeking pri on this etz te'enah (fig tree) and I do not find any. Therefore, cut it down! Why is it even using up the adamah (ground)? 
But in reply he says to him, Adoni, leave it also this year, until I may dig around it and may throw fertilizer on it, 
And if indeed it produces pri in the future, tov me'od (very well); otherwise, you will cut down it. 
Now in one of the shuls Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was saying shiurim on Shabbos. 
And an isha which had a ruach hamachla (a spirit of an infirmity, illness) shmonah asar (eighteen) years was bent double and was not able to straighten up at all. 
And when he saw her, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach called out to her and said, Isha (Woman), you have been set free from your machla (illness). 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach placed his hands upon her. And ofen ort (immediately) she was straightened and she was crying, Baruch Hashem! 
And in reply the Rosh of the Beit HaKnesset, being indignant that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach had given refuah (healing) on Shabbos, was saying to the multitude, There are sheshah yamim (six days) in which melachah (work) should be done; therefore, come during those sheshah yamim and get your refuah; but not on Shabbos! 
But Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Adoneinu answered him and said, Tzevu'im! Does not each of you on Shabbos untie his ox or his donkey from the evus (animal feeding trough) and lead it away to water him? 
But ought not this isha, a bat Avraham Avinu as she is, whom HaSatan has bound hinei, nebbach (regrettably) these shmonah asar (eighteen) long years — should she not have been set free from this bond on Shabbos? 
And as Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said these things, all his mitnaggedim (opponents) were put to bushah (shame), and all the multitude was having simcha with chedvah (rejoicing) over all the things of kavod being accomplished by him. 
Therefore, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was saying, What is the Malchut Hashem like? And to what shall I make a tzushtel (comparison) of it? 
It is like a mustard seed, which a man took and threw into his own garden, and it grew and became an etz (tree), and the OPH HASHOMAYIM nested in its branches. 
And again Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, To what shall I compare the Malchut Hashem? 
It is like se'or (leaven), which an isha took and hid in shalosh (three) measures of wheat flour until the whole batch was leavened. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was itinerating throughout the shtetlach (towns) and villages saying shiurim and heading on toward Yerushalayim. 
And someone said to him, Adoni, are there only a few coming to Yeshu'at Eloheinu? And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, 
Strive to enter through the sha'ar hatzarut (gate of narrowness), because many, I say to you, will seek to enter and they will not be able to. 
After the Baal Bayit gets up and shuts the delet, and you begin to stand outside and to knock on the delet, saying, Adoneinu, open up for us! And in reply, he will say to you, I do not have daas of you; from where are you from? 
Then you will begin to say, We ate and drank in your presence, and in our rekhovot (streets) you taught. 
And he will speak, saying to you, I do not know you, from where are you from? Go away from me, kol po'alei resha (all workers of evil)! 
There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you will see Avraham Avinu and Yitzchak and Ya'akov and all the Neviim in the Malchut Hashem, but you yourselves being thrown out. 
And they will come from mizrach (east) and maarav (west) and from tzafon (north) and darom (south) and they will be the ones bimesibba (reclining at tish) in the Malchut Hashem. 
And there are some acharonim who will be rishonim and there are some rishonim who will be acharonim. 
In the same hour some Perushim approached Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, saying to him, Depart and go from here, because Herod wants to kill you. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Go and tell that fox, Hinei, I cast out shedim and I accomplish refuot (healings) hayom (today) and makhar (tomorrow) and Yom HaShlishi (The Third Day) I reach my goal. 
Nevertheless, it is necessary for me to travel on hayom (today) and makhar (tomorrow) and the yom following, because it cannot be that a navi should have his violent death and his histalkus (passing) outside Yerushalayim. 
O Yerushalayim, Yerushalayim, she who kills the Neviim and stones the ones sent to her! How often I wanted to gather your yeladim just as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were not willing! 
Hinei your Beis is left to you desolate; and I say to you, you shall by no means see me until the zman (time) comes when you say, BARUCH HABAH B'SHEM ADONAI! 
