SHOFETIM.
Chapter 4.
And the Bnei Yisroel again did rah in the sight of Hashem, when Ehud was dead. 
And Hashem sold them into the yad Yavin Melech Kena'an, that reigned in Chatzor; the sar whose tze'va (army) was Sisra, which dwelt in Charoshet HaGoyim. 
And the Bnei Yisroel cried unto Hashem; for he had nine hundred chariots of barzel (iron); and twenty shanah he oppressed chazakah the Bnei Yisroel. 
And isha Devorah, a neviah, the eshet Lapidot, judged Yisroel at that time. 
And she held court under the Tomer Devorah between Ramah and Beit-El in har Ephrayim; Bnei Yisroel came up to her for mishpat. 
And she sent and called Barak ben Avinoam out of Kedesh Naphtali, and said unto him, Hath not Hashem Elohei Yisroel commanded, saying, Go and take position at Har Tavor, and take with thee ten thousand ish of the Bnei Naphtali and of the Bnei Zevulun? 
And I will lure unto thee to the river Kishon the sar Tze'va Yavin, Sisra, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thine yad. 
And Barak said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, then I will not go. 
And she said, I will surely go with thee; notwithstanding the derech of thee shall not take thee to thy teferet (honor); for Hashem shall sell Sisra into the yad of an isha. And Devorah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh. 
And Barak summoned Zevulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand ish at his feet; and Devorah went up with him. 
Now Chever the Keni, which was of the Bnei Chovav the khoten Moshe, had separated from the Kayin, and encamped his ohel unto the oak at Tza'anannim, which is near Kedesh. 
And they told Sisra that Barak ben Avinoam was gone up to Har Tavor. 
And Sisra gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of barzel (iron), and kol haAm that were with him, from Charoshet HaGoyim unto the river Kishon. 
And Devorah said unto Barak, Go! For this is the day in which Hashem hath delivered Sisra into thine yad. Is not Hashem gone out before thee? So Barak went down from Har Tavor, and ten thousand ish after him. 
And Hashem routed Sisra, and all his chariots, and kol hamachaneh, with the edge of the cherev before Barak; so that Sisra got down from his merkavah (chariot), and fled away on foot. 
But Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the machaneh, as far as Charoshet HaGoyim; and kol machaneh Sisra fell by the edge of the cherev; and there was not a man left. 
Howbeit Sisra fled away on foot to the ohel Ya'el the isha of Chever the Keni; for there was shalom between Yavin Melech Chatzor and the Bais Chever Keni. 
And Ya'el went out to meet Sisra, and said unto him, Turn in, adoni, stay with me; fear not. And when he had entered with her into the ohel, she covered him with a covering. 
And he said unto her, Give me, now, a little mayim to drink; for I am thirsty. And she opened a skin of cholov, and gave him drink, and covered him. 
Again he said unto her, Stand at the petach haohel, and it shall be, when any ish doth come and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any ish here? — thou shalt say, No. 
Then Ya'el eshet Chever took a yetad haohel (tent peg), and took a makevet (hammer) in her yad, and went softly unto him, and drove the yetad into his temple, and stuck it into the ground; for he was fast asleep exhausted. So he died. 
And, hinei, as Barak pursued Sisra, Ya'el came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the ish whom thou seekest. And when he came into her ohel, hinei, Sisra lay dead, and the yetad was in his temple. 
So Elohim subdued on that day Yavin Melech Kena'an before the Bnei Yisroel. 
And the yad Bnei Yisroel prospered, and prevailed against Yavin Melech Kena'an, until they had destroyed Yavin Melech Kena'an. 
