MARKOS.
Chapter 2.
And having entered again into K'far-Nachum, it was heard after some yamim, that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach is at home. 
And many were gathered together so that there was no longer any room at the delet, and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was speaking the dvar Hashem to them. 
And they come bringing to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach a paralytic being carried along by arba'a anashim (four men). 
And not being able to bring the paralytic to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach on account of the multitude, they removed the roof where Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was, and having made an opening, they lowered the mat upon which the paralytic was lying. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, having seen the emunah of them, says to the paralytic, Beni, your averos are granted selicha. 
And there were some of the Sofrim (Scribes) sitting there and thinking about these things in their levavot (hearts), 
Why is this one speaking thus? He is guilty of Chillul Hashem gidduf (Desecration of the Name, blasphemy). Who is able to grant selicha (forgiveness) to averos (sins) except Hashem? 
And, ofen ort (immediately), having had daas in his ruach that in this way they were thinking, Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Why are you considering such things in your levavot? 
Which is easier? To say to the paralytic, Your averos are granted selicha, or to say, Stand and pick up your mat and walk? 
But in order that you may have daas that the Bar Enosh has samchut (authority) on haaretz to grant that averos receive selicha, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to the paralytic, 
To you I say, Stand, pick up your mat, and go to your bais. 
And the man arose, and, ofen ort (immediately), in front of everyone, taking the mat, he went outside. So everyone was astonished and gave kavod to Hashem saying, Never have we seen anything like this! 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach went out again beside the lake; and all the multitude was coming to him, and he was teaching them torah. 
And as he was passing by, he saw Levi Ben-Chalfai sitting in the tax office, and Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to him, Follow me. And, getting up, Levi (Mattityahu) followed Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
And it came to pass that Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach reclined at tish in Leviʼs house, and many mochesim (tax collectors) and chote'im (sinners) were reclining at tish with Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach and with his talmidim. For there were many, and they were following him. 
And the Sofrim (scribes) of the Perushim, seeing that Rebbe Melech HaMoshiach eats with chote'im (sinners) and mochesim (tax collectors), were saying to his talmidim, With mochesim (tax collectors) and chote'im (sinners) does he eat? 
And having heard this, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Itʼs not the strong ones that have need of a rofeh (physician) but rather the cholim (sick persons). I did not come to call the tzaddikim (righteous ones) but the chote'im (sinners) to teshuva. 
And the talmidim of Yochanan and the Perushim came with tzomot (fasts). And they come and say to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, Why do the talmidim of the Perushim and the talmidim of Yochanan come with tzomot, but your talmidim do not? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, said to them, Surely the Bnei HaChuppah of the Choson (Bridegroom) are not able to undergo tzomot as long as they have the Choson with them, nu? As long as they have the Choson with them, they are not able to undergo tzomot. 
But yamim (days) will come when the Choson is taken away from them, and then they will undergo tzomot HaYom HaHu. 
No one sews a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment; otherwise, the patch will pull away from it, the new from the old, and a worse tear results. 
And no one puts yayin chadash (new wine) into old wineskins; otherwise, the yayin will burst the wineskins and the yayin is lost and so are the wineskins. Instead yayin chadash (new wine) is put into new wineskins. 
And it came about that on Shabbos, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach was passing through the grainfields, and his talmidim began to make their way picking the heads of grain. 
And the Perushim said to him, Look, why are they engaging in what is not mutar (permissible) in the Torah on Shabbos? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach says to them, Have you never read in the Tanakh what Dovid HaMelech did when he was in need and he was hungry, he and the ones with him? 
How he entered into the Beis Hashem during the yamim of Evyatar the Kohen Gadol and the Lechem HaPanim he ate, which to be eaten it is not mutar (permissible) except by the Kohanim, and he gave some also to the ones with him. 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said to them, Shabbos was created for the sake of man and not man for the sake of Shabbos. 
Therefore, the Bar Enosh is even Adon HaShabbos. 
