TEHILLIM.
Chapter 22.
(For the one directing. To the Deer of the Dawn. Mizmor Dovid) 
Eli, Eli, lamah azavtani? Why art Thou so far from my yeshu'ah, and from the words of my groaning? 
Elohai, I cry yomam, but Thou hearest not; and v'lailah, and am not silent. 
But Atah Kadosh, O Thou enthroned on the tehillot Yisroel. 
Avoteinu trusted in Thee; they had bitachon, and Thou didst deliver them. 
They cried unto Thee, and were delivered; they had bitachon in Thee, and were not disappointed. 
But I am a tola'at, and no ish; a reproach of men, and despised of the people. 
All they that see me mock me; they shoot out the lip, they shake the rosh, saying, 
He trusted in Hashem; let Hashem rescue him; let Him deliver him, since He delights in him. 
But Thou art He that took me out of the womb; Thou didst make me trust when I was upon the breasts of immi. 
I was cast upon Thee from the womb; Thou art Eli from the womb of immi. 
Be not far from me; for tzoros is near; and there is none to help. 
Parim rabbim (many bulls) have encompassed me; strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round about. 
They opened wide their mouths upon me, like an aryeh roaring and tearing prey. 
I am poured out like mayim, and all my atzmot are out of joint; my lev is like wax; it is melted away within me. 
My ko'ach is dried up like baked clay; and my leshon cleaveth to my jaws; and Thou layest me in the aphar mavet (dust of death). 
For kelavim have surrounded me; the Adat Mere'im (congregation of evil men) have enclosed me; KA'ARU YADAI V'RAGELAI (they pierced my hands and my feet). 
I can count all my atzmot; the people stare and gloat at me. 
They divide up my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast goral (lots). 
But be not Thou far from me, Hashem; O my strength, hasten Thee to help me. 
Deliver my nefesh from the cherev, my yechid (only one, only) nefesh from the power of the kelev (dog). 
Hoshieini from the mouth of the aryeh; for Thou hast heard me from the karnayim of the wild bulls. 
I will declare Thy Shem unto my Achim; in the midst of the Kahal will I praise Thee. 
Ye that fear Hashem, praise Him; all ye Zera Ya'akov, give Him kavod; and fear Him, all ye Zera Yisroel. 
For He hath not despised nor disdained the enut ani (affliction of the afflicted); neither hath He hid His face from him; but when he cried unto Him, He heard. 
My tehillah shall be from Thee in the Kahal Rav; I will fulfill my nedar before them that fear Him. 
The anavim (meek) shall eat and be satisfied; they that seek Him shall praise Hashem. Let your levav live forever! 
All the ends of HaAretz shall remember and turn unto Hashem; and all the mishpechot of the Goyim shall bow down in worship before Thee. 
For the Meluchah is Hashemʼs: and He is the Moshel over the Goyim. 
All they that thrive upon HaAretz shall eat and worship; all they that go down to the aphar (dust) shall bow before Him; even he who cannot keep alive his own nefesh. 
Zera shall serve Him; it shall be told to the generation to come concerning Adonoi. 
They shall come, and shall declare His tzedek unto an Am Nolad (a future people that shall be born), that He hath done this. 
