YESHAYAH.
Chapter 51.
Pay heed to Me, ye that pursue tzedek, ye that seek Hashem; look unto the Tzur from where ye are cut, and to the quarry from where ye were hewn. 
Look unto Avraham Avichem, and unto Sarah that gave birth to you; for I called him as one alone, and put a brocha on him, and made him many. 
For Hashem shall comfort Tziyon; He will comfort all her ruins; and He will make her midbar like Eden, and her ruins like the Gan (Garden) of Hashem; sasson and simchah shall be found therein, todah, and the kol zimrah (the sound of singing). 
Pay heed unto Me, O My people; and give ear unto Me, O My Nation; for torah shall go forth from Me, and I will set at rest My mishpat as Ohr Amim (Light for the Nations). 
My tzedek is near; My Salvation is gone forth, and Mine zero'a shall judge the Ammim; the iyim shall wait upon Me, and on Mine zero'a shall they trust. 
Lift up your eyes to Shomayim, and look upon ha'aretz beneath; for Shomayim shall vanish like ashan (smoke), and ha'aretz shall wear out like a beged, and they that dwell therein shall die in like manner; but My Yeshu'ah (Salvation) shall be l'olam, and My tzedakah shall not be dismayed. 
Pay heed unto Me, ye that know tzedek, Am torati velibam (the People with My torah in their heart); fear ye not the cherpat enosh (the reproach, reviling of man) neither be ye afraid of their giddufot (insults, scorn). 
For the ahsh (moth) shall eat them up like a beged, and the worm shall eat them like wool; but My tzedakah shall be l'olam, and My Yeshu'ah (Salvation) l'odor dorim (from generation to generation). 
Awake, awake, clothe thyself with oz, O zero'a Hashem; awake, as in the yemei kedem, in the dorot olamim. Art thou not it that hath cut Rachav to pieces, and pierced Tannin. 
Art thou not the One Who hath dried the yam, the waters of the tehom rabbah; that hath made the depths of the yam a derech for the ge'ulim (redeemed ones) to cross over? 
Therefore the Redeemed of Hashem shall return, and come with singing unto Tziyon; and simchat olam shall be upon their rosh; they shall obtain sasson and simchah; and sorrow and mourning shall flee away. 
I, even I, am He that comforteth you. Who art thou, that thou shouldest fear enosh that shall die, and ben adam which shall be made as khatzir (grass); 
And forgettest Hashem Osehcha (thy Maker), that hath stretched out Shomayim, and laid the foundations of Eretz; and thou art terrified tamid (constantly), kol hayom, because of the fury of the oppressor when he is ready to destroy? And where is the fury of the oppressor? 
The tzo'eh (the one stooped in the Golus) hasteneth that he may be set free, and that he should not die in shachat, nor that his lechem should fail. 
But I am Hashem Eloheicha Who stirs up the yam, whose waves roar; Hashem Tzva'os Shmo. 
And I put My words in thy mouth, and I have covered thee in the tzel (shadow) of Mine yad, that I may set Shomayim in place, and lay the foundations of Eretz, and say unto Tziyon: Thou art My people. 
Awake, awake, rise up, O Yerushalayim, which hast drunk at the Yad Hashem the kos of His fury; thou hast drunk to the dregs and drained dry the Kos HaTarelah (Cup of Reeling). 
Among kol banim whom she hath given birth to, there is none to guide her; neither is there any that taketh her by the yad of kol banim that she hath reared. 
These two are come upon thee. Who shall grieve for thee? Shod and shever and ra'av (famine) and cherev; with whom shall I console thee? 
Thy banim have fainted, they lie at the rosh of all the streets, like a wild bull in a net; they are full of the chamat Hashem, the rebuke of thy G-d. 
Therefore hear now this, thou afflicted one, thou drunken one, but not with yayin; 
Thus saith thy L-rd Hashem, and thy G-d that pleadeth the cause of His people: Hinei, I have taken out of thine yad the Kos HaTarelah (Cup of Reeling, the Cup that causes reeling), even the dregs of the cup of My fury; thou shalt no more drink it again; 
But I will put it into the yad of them that torment thee; which have said to thy nefesh, Bow down, that we may walk over; and thou hast laid thy gev (back) like the ground and like the street, to them that walked over. 
