CHABAKUK.
Chapter 3.
A tefillah of Chabakuk HaNavi. On Shigionoth. 
Hashem, I have heard Thy speech, and was afraid; Hashem, revive Thy work in the midst of the shanim, i n the midst of the shanim make known; in wrath remember mercy. 
G-d came from Teman, and HaKadosh from Mt Paran. Selah. His hod (glory) covered HaShomayim, and ha'aretz was full of His tehillah (praise). 
And His brightness was like the ohr; He had rays of light flashing from His yad; and there was His power hidden. 
Before Him went the dever (plague), and pestilence went forth at His feet. 
He stood, and measured ha'aretz; He beheld, and made the Goyim tremble; and the everlasting mountains were scattered, the perpetual hills did bow; His ways are olam (everlasting). 
I saw the tents of Kushan in affliction; and the dwellings of Eretz Midyan did tremble. 
Was Hashem displeased against the rivers? Was Thine anger against the rivers? Was Thy wrath against the yam, that Thou didst ride upon Thine susim and Thy merkavot of yeshu'ah (salvation)? 
Thy keshet (bow) was made bare. Oathes were sworn over mattot (rods, arrows). Selah. Thou didst cleave the earth with rivers. 
The harim (mountains) saw Thee, and they trembled; the overflowing of the water passed by; the tehom (deep) uttered its voice, and lifted up its hands on high. 
The shemesh and yarei'ach stood still in their habitation; at the ohr of Thine arrows they went, and at the lightning of Thy glittering spear. 
Thou didst march through the land in indignation, Thou didst thresh the Goyim in anger. 
Thou wentest forth for the salvation of Thy people, even for deliverance of Thy Moshiach; Thou crushed the rosh of the bais of the wicked, Thou stripped him thigh to neck. Selah. 
Thou didst pierce with his spears the head of his horde; they came out like a whirlwind to scatter me; their rejoicing was like unto devouring the aniyim (the poor) in secret. 
Thou didst walk through the yam with Thine susim, through the heap of mayim rabbim. 
When I heard, my heart trembled; my lips quivered at the voice; rottenness entered into my bones, and I trembled in myself, that I might wait patiently for the Yom Tzarah to come on the nation invading us. 
Although the etz te'enah shall not blossom, neither shall grape be on the gefen; the labor of the olive shall fail, and the fields shall yield no okhel; the tzon shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls; 
Yet I will rejoice in Hashem, I will joy in the G-d of my salvation. 
Hashem Adonoi is my strength, and He will make my feet like the feet of a deer, and He will make me to walk upon mine high places. To the chief singer on my stringed instruments.
