TEHILLIM.
Chapter 107.
O give thanks unto Hashem, for He is tov; ki l'olam chasdo (for His mercy endureth forever). 
Let the Geulei Hashem(the redeemed of Hashem) say so, whom He hath redeemed from the yad tzar; 
And gathered them out of the lands, from the mizrach (east), and from the ma'arav (west), from the tzafon (north), and from the yam (sea). 
They wandered in the midbar in a desolate region; they found no derech to an ir moshav (inhabited city). 
Re'evim (hungry) and tzeme'im (thirsty), their nefesh fainted within them. 
Then they cried unto Hashem in their tzoros, and He delivered them out of their distresses. 
And He led them forth by the derech yesharah that they might go to an ir moshav. 
Oh that men would praise Hashem for His chesed, and for His nifla'ot (wonderful works) to the Bnei Adam! 
For He satisfieth the longing nefesh, and filleth the hungry nefesh with the tov. 
Such as sit in choshech and in tzalmavet, being bound in oni and barzel (iron); 
Because they rebelled against the words of G-d, and despised the atzat Elyon (counsel of the Most High); 
Therefore He brought down their lev with amal (toil); they stumbled, and there was no ozer (helper). 
Then they cried out unto Hashem in their tzoros, and He saved them out of their distresses. 
He brought them out of choshech and tzalmavet, and broke apart their chains. 
Oh that men would praise Hashem for His chesed, and for His nifla'ot (wonderful works) to the Bnei Adam! 
For He hath broken down the dlatot nechoshet, and cut asunder the bars of barzel (iron). 
Fools because of their derech peysha, and because of their avonot (iniquities), were afflicted. 
Their nefesh abhorreth all manner of ochel (food); and they drew near unto the sha'arei mavet (gates of death). 
Then they cried unto Hashem in their tzoros, and He saveth them out of their distresses. 
He sent His Davar, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions. 
Oh that men would praise Hashem for His chesed, and for His nifla'ot (wonderful works) to the Bnei Adam! 
And let them sacrifice the zivkhei todah (sacrifices of thanksgiving), and recount His works with joyful singing. 
They that go down to the yam in oniyot (ships), that do business on mayim rabbim (great waters); 
These have seen the ma'asei Hashem, and His nifla'ot (wonders) in the deep. 
For He commandeth, and raiseth up a ruach sa'arah (stormy wind), which lifteth up the galim (waves) thereof. 
They mount up to Shomayim, they went down again to the tehomot (depths); their nefesh melted in ra'ah (peril, trouble). 
They reeled and staggered like a shikkor, and were at their witʼs end. 
Then they cried unto Hashem in their tzoros, and He brought them out of their distresses. 
He made the sa'arah (storm) a calm, so that the galim (waves) thereof were still. 
Then were they glad because they were quiet; so He brought them unto their makhoz chefetz (desired haven, city, district, boundary). 
Oh that men would praise Hashem for His chesed, and for His nifla'ot (wonderful works) to the Bnei Adam! 
Let them exalt Him also in the Kehal Am, and praise Him in the moshav zekenim (council of the elders). 
He turneth neharot (rivers) into a midbar, and the springs of water into dry ground; 
An eretz p'ri (fruitful land) into salt wasteland, because of the wickedness of them that dwell therein. 
He turneth the midbar into an agam (pool, lake) of mayim, and dry ground into springs of water. 
And there He maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may found an ir moshav (an inhabited city); 
And sow the sadot, and plant kramim, and acquire p'ri tevu'ah (fruits of increase). 
He made a brocha on them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and He doth not permit their behemah to decrease. 
Again, they are diminished and brought low through otzer (oppression), ra'ah (calamity, peril, trouble) and yagon (sorrow, grief). 
He poureth contempt upon nedivim (nobles), and causeth them to wander in the wilderness, where there is no derech. 
Yet setteth He the evyon (needy) up above oni (affliction), and maketh him mishpekhot like a tzon (flock). 
The yesharim (upright ones) shall see it, and rejoice with simchah; and all iniquity shall shut its mouth. 
Whosoever is chacham, and will be shomer over these things, even they shall understand the chasdei Hashem(lovingkindnesses ofHashem). 
