Philippians.
Chapter 3.
As to the rest, Achim b'Moshiach of mine, have simcha in Adoneinu. To keep writing the zelba thing to you is not an irksome bother to me, but for you it is a te'udat bitachon (safeguard). 
Be shomer and on your guard and watch out for those kelevim (dogs), watch out for the evil po'alim (workers), watch out for the “circummutilators”. 
For we are the Bnei HaMilah, the ones whose avodas kodesh is by the Ruach Hakodesh and whose kavod is in Moshiach Yehoshua and who take no bitachon in the basar, 
Even though I could be having bitachon also in the basar. If any other person thinks he has grounds to have bitachon in the basar, I have more: 
Bris milah on the eighth day; from Bnei Yisroel by birth; of the tribe of Binyamin; a speaker of Lashon HaKodesh, Ivrit of Ivrit-speaking horim, a Hebrew of Hebrews; with regard to the Torah, from the kat haPerushim; 
With regard to kin'a (zealousness), persecuting the Adat HaMoshiach; with regard to tzidkat HaTorah, I was medakdekim bmitzvot unreproachable. 
But what things were revach (gain, profit) to me, these things I considered loss, on account of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
But even more so, I consider all to be loss on account of the excellency of the da'as of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua Adoneinu, on account of whom I suffered the loss of all things and I consider them as nothing, in comparison, that I may gain Moshiach, 
And be found in him, not having my own Tzidkot (self-achieved righteousness, by definition a self-righteousness based on chumra stringency) from gezetz, but the Tzedek through emunah in Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, the Tzidkat Hashem based upon emunah. 
I want to have da'as of Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach, and of the gevurah (power) of the Techiyas HaMoshiach and the deveykus (attachment to G-d) of Moshiachʼs yissurim (sufferings), being formed into the mode of being of Moshiachʼs death, 
If somehow I may attain to the Techiyas HaMesim. 
Not that already I obtained or already have been made shleimut, but I pursue this tachlis (final end, aim) that I may lay hold of that for which I was laid hold of by Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
Achim b'Moshiach, I do not consider myself to have laid hold; but one zach (thing) I do, forgetting the things behind, and stretching forward to the things ahead, 
According to the tachlis I pursue the prize of the Shomayim Aliyah ascent of Hashem, the upward k'riah (call) of HaShem b'Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua. 
Therefore, as many as would be shleimut, let us think like this: and if in anything your machshavot (thoughts) are different, even this Hashem will reveal to you. 
Fort (nevertheless), let us march in line with what we have attained, let us hold to the same. 
Achim b'Moshiach, together be imitators of me. Take note of the ones walking as you have a mofet in us. 
For many, of whom I was often telling you, and now also I say with weeping, walk as oyvim (enemies) of Moshiachʼs Etz. 
Their destined end is churban (destruction, Gehinnom). Their g-d is their appetite, and their kavod, what they glory in, is their bushah (shame). Their machshavot are set on the Olam Hazeh. 
But the torat haEzrakhut(citizenship) we conduct exists in Shomayim, from where also we eagerly await a Moshi'a (Savior), a Go'el, Adoneinu Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach Yehoshua, 
Who will transfigure the basar of our humiliation into the demut of the mode of being of the guf kavod of Moshiach, according to the pe'ulah(action, work) of his ko'ach (power), even to the subjecting of all things to himself. 
