MATTITYAHU.
Chapter 11.
And it came about when he finished giving directives to his Shneym Asar Talmidim, he moved on from there, exercising the ministry of moreh (teacher) and darshan (preacher, maggid) in their shtetlach. 
Now when Yochanan, in the beit hasohor (prison), heard of the maasei haMoshiach (works of Moshiach), he sent his talmidim to Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach. 
They asked him, Tell us. Are you Hu Habah (He who comes) or is our chikiah (wait) to be for the Bias (Coming) of another? 
And Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach answered them, saying, Go give the report of what you see and hear to Yochanan: 
The ivrim (blind people) see, the pisechim (lame people) walk, the metzoraim (lepers) are cleansed, the chereshim (deaf people) hear, the mesim are made to stand up alive, and the aniyim (poor) have the Besuras HaGeulah preached to them. 
Ashrey (Happy) is the one who does not find a cause of michshol (falling, stumbling) in me. 
As they were leaving, he began to speak to the multitudes about Yochanan, What did you go out into the midbar (wilderness) to see? A reed being shaken by the wind? 
What did you go out to see? Someone shtats (imposing, impressive) in appearance, attired in soft raiment? Hinei, the ones wearing soft raiment are in houses of melachim (kings). 
But what did you go out to see? A Navi? Ken, I tell you. And one greater than a Navi. 
This is he about whom it has been written, HINNENI SHOLEIACH MALACHI (Behold, I will send my messenger) before your face, UPINNAH DERECH LEFANAI (and he will prepare the way before me). 
Omein, I say to you, of those born of women, there has not appeared one greater than Yochanan of the tevilah of teshuva, yet the person with the least chashivut in the Malchut HaShomayim is greater than he. 
From the days of Yochanan of the tevilah of teshuva until now, the Malchut HaShomayim has been under violent attack and the violent seize it with coercion. 
For all the Neviim and the Torah prophesied until Yochanan. 
And, if you are willing it to be mekabel (accept, receive), he is the “Eliyahu,” who is to come. 
The one having ears, let him hear. 
But to what will I compare this generation? It is like yeladim sitting in the marketplaces, calling out to one another, 
We played the chalil (flute) for you, but you did not dance; we sang a kina (lament, funeral dirge) for you, and you did not mourn. 
For Yochanan came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He has a shed. 
The Bar Enosh came eating and drinking, and they say, Hinei! A zolel (glutton) and a shikkor (drunkard), a friend of mochesim (tax collectors) and chote'im (sinners). Yet, Chochmah (Wisdom) is vindicated by her ma'asim. 
Then he began to reproach the shtetlach (villages) in which were accomplished most of his gevurot (mighty deeds), because they did not make teshuva. 
Oy l'chah (Woe to you), Korazin! Oy l'chah, Beit-Tzaidah! For if in Tzor and Tzidon were accomplished the gevurot that were accomplished among you, they would have made teshuva long ago in sackcloth and ashes. 
Nevertheless, I say to you, it will be more bearable for Tzor and Tzidon than for you on Yom HaDin. 
And you, K'far-Nachum, were you lifted up as far as Shomayim? You shall be brought down as far as Sheol. For if in S'dom were accomplished the gevurot that were accomplished among you, S'dom would have a sheerit (remnant) today! 
Nevertheless, I say to you, it will be more bearable for the land of S'dom on Yom HaDin than for you. 
At that time, Rebbe, Melech HaMoshiach said, Modeh Ani, Avi, Adon HaShomayim v'HaAretz, (I thank you, Father, L-rd of Heaven and Earth), because you hid these things from the chachamim (wise) and those with seichel, and to them they are nistar (hidden, esoteric), and you made a hisgalus (revelation) of them unto ollelim (infants). 
Ken, Avi, for thus it was pleasing in your sight. 
All things were given to me by Avi, and no one has daas (knowledge) of HaBen except HaAv, nor does anyone have daas of HaAv, except HaBen, and anyone to whom HaBen chooses to unveil him. 
Come to me, all you who are burden-weary and heavy laden, and I will give you Shabbos menuchah. 
Take my ol (yoke) upon you and learn from me, for I am anav (humble) and have shiflut (lowliness) in lev (heart), and you will find menuchah (rest, security) for your nefashot (souls). 
For my ol (yoke) is easy and my burden is light. 
