____________________

[8]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 15 November 2006 - Saint Paul and
the Spirit

1. Saint Paul the Apostle

Today too, as in our last two Catecheses, we
return to Saint Paul and his thought. We have before us a giant, not
only in terms of his actual apostolate but also of his extraordinarily
profound and stimulating theological teaching.

After meditating last time on what Paul wrote about the central place
that Jesus Christ occupies in our life of faith, today let us look at
what he said about the Holy Spirit and about his presence in us,
because here too, the Apostle has something very important to teach us.

We know what Saint Luke told us of the Holy Spirit from his description
of the event of Pentecost in the Acts of the Apostles. The Spirit of
Pentecost brought with him a strong impulse to take on the commitment
of the mission in order to witness to the Gospel on the highways of the
world.

Indeed, the Acts of the Apostles relates a whole series of missions the
Apostles carried out, first in Samaria, then on the coastal strip of
Palestine, then towards Syria. Above all, the three great missionary
journeys of Paul are recounted, as I recalled at one of our previous
Wednesday meetings.

In his Letters, however, Saint Paul also spoke to us of the Spirit from
another angle. He did not end by describing solely the dynamic and
active dimension of the Third Person of the Blessed Trinity, but also
analyzed his presence in the lives of Christians, which marks their
identity.

In other words, in Paul's reflection on the Spirit he not only
explained his influence on the action of Christians, but also on their
being. Indeed, it is he who said that the Spirit of God dwells in us
(cf. Romans 8:9; I Corinthians 3:16) and that "God has sent the Spirit
of his Son into our hearts" (Gal 4: 6).

In Paul's opinion, therefore, the Spirit stirs us to the very depths of
our being. Here are some of his words on this subject which have an
important meaning: "For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus
has set me free from the law of sin and death... you did not receive
the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the
spirit of sonship. When we cry, "Abba! Father!', it is the Spirit
himself" (Romans 8: 2, 15) who speaks in us because, as children, we
can call God "Father".

Thus, we can see clearly that even before he does anything, the
Christian already possesses a rich and fruitful interiority, given to
him in the Sacraments of Baptism and Confirmation, an interiority which
establishes him in an objective and original relationship of sonship
with God. This is our greatest dignity: to be not merely images but
also children of God. And it is an invitation to live our sonship, to
be increasingly aware that we are adoptive sons in God's great family.
It is an invitation to transform this objective gift into a subjective
reality, decisive for our way of thinking, acting and being.

God considers us his children, having raised us to a similar if not
equal dignity to that of Jesus himself, the one true Son in the full
sense. Our filial condition and trusting freedom in our relationship
with the Father is given or restored to us in him.

We thus discover that for Christians, the Spirit is no longer only the
"Spirit of God", as he is usually described in the Old Testament and as
people continue to repeat in Christian language (cf. Gn 41: 38; Ex 31:
3; I Corinthians 2:11,12; Phil 3: 3; etc.). Nor is he any longer simply
a "Holy Spirit" generically understood, in the manner of the Old
Testament (cf. Is 63: 10, 11; Ps 51[50]: 13), and of Judaism itself in
its writings (Qumran, rabbinism).

Indeed, the confession of an original sharing in this Spirit by the
Risen Lord, who himself became a "life-giving Spirit" (I Cor 15: 45),
is part of the specificity of the Christian faith.

For this very reason, Saint Paul spoke directly of the "Spirit of
Christ" (Romans 8:9), of the "Spirit of his Son" (cf. Gal 4: 6) or of
the "Spirit of Jesus Christ" (Phil 1: 19). It is as though he wanted to
say that not only is God the Father visible in the Son (cf. John 14:
9), but that the Spirit of God also expresses himself in the life and
action of the Crucified and Risen Lord!

Paul teaches us another important thing: he says that there is no true
prayer without the presence of the Spirit within us. He wrote: "The
Spirit helps us in our weakness; for we do not know how to pray as we
ought, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with sighs too deep for
words. And he who searches the hearts of men knows what is the mind of
the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to
the will of God" (Rom 8: 26-27).

It is as if to say that the Holy Spirit, that is, the Spirit of the
Father and of the Son, is henceforth as it were the soul of our soul,
the most secret part of our being, from which an impulse of prayer
rises ceaselessly to God, whose words we cannot even begin to explain.

In fact, the Spirit, ever alert within us, completes what is lacking in
us and offers to the Father our worship as well as our deepest
aspirations.

This, of course, requires a degree of great and vital communion with
the Spirit. It is an invitation to be increasingly sensitive, more
attentive to this presence of the Spirit in us, to transform it into
prayer, to feel this presence and thus to learn to pray, to speak to
the Father as children in the Holy Spirit.

There is also another typical aspect of the Spirit which Saint Paul
teaches us: his connection with love. Thus, the Apostle wrote: "Hope
does not disappoint us, because God's love has been poured into our
hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us" (Rom 5: 5).

In my Encyclical Letter Deus Caritas Est, I cited a most eloquent
sentence of Saint Augustine: "If you see charity, you see the Trinity"
(n. 19), and I continued by explaining: "The Spirit, in fact, is that
interior power which harmonizes [believers'] hearts with Christ's Heart
and moves them to love their brethren as Christ loved them" (ibid.).
The Spirit immerses us in the very rhythm of divine life, which is a
life of love, enabling us to share personally in relations between the
Father and the Son.

It is not without significance that when Paul lists the various
elements that constitute the fruit of the Spirit he puts love first:
"the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace", etc. (Gal 5: 22).

And since by definition, love unites, this means first of all that the
Spirit is the creator of communion within the Christian community, as
we say at the beginning of Mass, borrowing Paul's words: "... may the
fellowship of the Holy Spirit [that is, what he brings about] be with
you all" (II Cor 13: 14).

Furthermore, however, it is also true that the Spirit stimulates us to
weave charitable relations with all people. Therefore, when we love we
make room for the Spirit and give him leeway to express himself fully
within us.

We thus understand why Paul juxtaposes in the same passage of his
Letter to the Romans the two exhortations: "Be aglow with the Spirit"
and "Repay no one evil for evil" (Rom 12: 11, 17).

Finally, according to Saint Paul, the Spirit is a generous downpayment
given to us by God himself as a deposit and at the same time, a
guarantee of our future inheritance (cf. II Corinthians 1:22; 5:5;
Ephesians 1:13-14).

We therefore learn from Paul that the Spirit's action directs our life
towards the great values of love, joy, communion and hope. It is our
task to experience this every day, complying with the inner promptings
of the Spirit and helped in our discernment by the Apostle's
enlightened guidance.

