____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 14 November 2007 - Saint Jerome,
part 2

[10]statue of Saint Jerome, Church of Saint Madelliene, Paris, France;
sculptor unknown Today, we continue the presentation of the figure of
Saint Jerome. As we said last Wednesday, he dedicated his life to
studying the Bible, so much so that he was recognized by my
Predecessor, Pope Benedict XV, as "an outstanding doctor in the
interpretation of Sacred Scripture". Jerome emphasized the joy and
importance of being familiar with biblical texts: "Does one not seem to
dwell, already here on earth, in the Kingdom of Heaven when one lives
with these texts, when one meditates on them, when one does not know or
seek anything else?" (Ep. 53, 10). In reality, to dialogue with God,
with his Word, is in a certain sense a presence of Heaven, a presence
of God. To draw near to the biblical texts, above all the New
Testament, is essential for the believer, because "ignorance of the
Scriptures is ignorance of Christ". This is his famous phrase, cited
also by the Second Vatican Council in the Constitution Dei Verbum (n.
25).

Truly "in love" with the Word of God, he asked himself: "How could one
live without the knowledge of Scripture, through which one learns to
know Christ himself, who is the life of believers?" (Ep. 30, 7). The
Bible, an instrument "by which God speaks every day to the faithful"
(Ep. 133, 13), thus becomes a stimulus and source of Christian life for
all situations and for each person. To read Scripture is to converse
with God: "If you pray", he writes to a young Roman noblewoman, "you
speak with the Spouse; if you read, it is he who speaks to you" (Ep.
22, 25). The study of and meditation on Scripture renders man wise and
serene (cf. In Eph., Prol.). Certainly, to penetrate the Word of God
ever more profoundly, a constant and progressive application is needed.
Hence, Jerome recommends to the priest Nepotian: "Read the divine
Scriptures frequently; rather, may your hands never set the Holy Book
down. Learn here what you must teach" (Ep. 52, 7). To the Roman matron
Leta he gave this counsel for the Christian education of her daughter:
"Ensure that each day she studies some Scripture passage.... After
prayer, reading should follow, and after reading, prayer.... Instead of
jewels and silk clothing, may she love the divine Books" (Ep. 107, 9,
12). Through meditation on and knowledge of the Scriptures, one
"maintains the equilibrium of the soul" (Ad Eph., Prol.). Only a
profound spirit of prayer and the Holy Spirit's help can introduce us
to understanding the Bible: "In the interpretation of Sacred Scripture
we always need the help of the Holy Spirit" (In Mich. 1, 1, 10, 15).

A passionate love for Scripture therefore pervaded Jerome's whole life,
a love that he always sought to deepen in the faithful, too. He
recommends to one of his spiritual daughters: "Love Sacred Scripture
and wisdom will love you; love it tenderly, and it will protect you;
honour it and you will receive its caresses. May it be for you as your
necklaces and your earrings" (Ep. 130, 20). And again: "Love the
science of Scripture, and you will not love the vices of the flesh"
(Ep. 125, 11).

For Jerome, a fundamental criterion of the method for interpreting the
Scriptures was harmony with the Church's Magisterium. We should never
read Scripture alone because we meet too many closed doors and could
easily slip into error. The Bible has been written by the People of God
and for the People of God under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit.
Only in this communion with the People of God do we truly enter into
the "we", into the nucleus of the truth that God himself wants to tell
us. For him, an authentic interpretation of the Bible must always be in
harmonious accord with the faith of the Catholic Church. It is not a
question of an exegesis imposed on this Book from without; the Book is
really the voice of the pilgrim People of God and only in the faith of
this People are we "correctly attuned" to understand Sacred Scripture.
Therefore, Jerome admonishes: "Remain firmly attached to the
traditional doctrine that you have been taught, so that you can preach
according to right doctrine and refute those who contradict it" (Ep.
52, 7). In particular, given that Jesus Christ founded his Church on
Peter, every Christian, he concludes, must be in communion "with Saint
Peter's See. I know that on this rock the Church is built" (Ep. 15, 2).
Consequently, without equivocation, he declared: "I am with whoever is
united to the teaching of Saint Peter" (Ep. 16).

Obviously, Jerome does not neglect the ethical aspect. Indeed, he often
recalls the duty to harmonize one's life with the divine Word, and only
by living it does one also find the capacity to understand it. This
consistency is indispensable for every Christian, and particularly for
the preacher, so that his actions may never contradict his discourses
nor be an embarrassment to him. Thus, he exhorts the priest Nepotian:
"May your actions never be unworthy of your words, may it not happen
that, when you preach in church, someone might say to himself: "Why
does he therefore not act like this?'. How could a teacher, on a full
stomach, discuss fasting; even a thief can blame avarice; but in the
priest of Christ the mind and words must harmonize" (Ep. 52, 7). In
another Epistle Jerome repeats: "Even if we possess a splendid
doctrine, the person who feels condemned by his own conscience remains
disgraced" (Ep. 127, 4). Also on the theme of consistency he observes:
the Gospel must translate into truly charitable behaviour, because in
each human being the Person of Christ himself is present. For example,
addressing the presbyter Paulinus (who then became Bishop of Nola and a
Saint), Jerome counsels: "The true temple of Christ is the soul of the
faithful: adorn it and beautify this shrine, place your offerings in it
and receive Christ. What is the use of decorating the walls with
precious stones if Christ dies of hunger in the person of the poor?"
(Ep. 58, 7). Jerome concretizes the need "to clothe Christ in the poor,
to visit him in the suffering, to nourish him in the hungry, to house
him in the homeless" (Ep. 130, 14). The love of Christ, nourished with
study and meditation, makes us rise above every difficulty: "Let us
also love Jesus Christ, always seeking union with him: then even what
is difficult will seem easy to us" (Ep. 22, 40).

Prosper of Aquitaine, who defined Jerome as a "model of conduct and
teacher of the human race" (Carmen de ingratis, 57), also left us a
rich and varied teaching on Christian asceticism. He reminds us that a
courageous commitment towards perfection requires constant vigilance,
frequent mortifications, even if with moderation and prudence, and
assiduous intellectual and manual labour to avoid idleness (cf. Epp.
125, 11; 130, 15), and above all obedience to God: "Nothing... pleases
God as much as obedience..., which is the most excellent and sole
virtue" (Hom. de Oboedientia: CCL 78, 552). The practice of pilgrimage
can also be part of the ascetical journey. In particular, Jerome
promoted pilgrimages to the Holy Land, where pilgrims were welcomed and
housed in the lodgings that were built next to the monastery of
Bethlehem, thanks to the generosity of the noblewoman Paula, a
spiritual daughter of Jerome (cf. Ep. 108, 14).

Lastly, one cannot remain silent about the importance that Jerome gave
to the matter of Christian pedagogy (cf. Epp. 107; 128). He proposed to
form "one soul that must become the temple of the Lord" (Ep. 107, 4), a
"very precious gem" in the eyes of God (Ep. 107, 13). With profound
intuition he advises to preserve oneself from evil and from the
occasions of sin, and to exclude equivocal or dissipating friendships
(cf. Ep. 107, 4, 8-9; also Ep. 128, 3-4). Above all, he exhorts parents
to create a serene and joyful environment around their children, to
stimulate them to study and work also through praise and emulation (cf.
Epp. 107, 4; 128, 1), encouraging them to overcome difficulties, foster
good habits and avoid picking up bad habits, so that, and here he cites
a phrase of Publius Siro which he heard at school: "it will be
difficult for you to correct those things to which you are quietly
habituating yourself" (Ep. 107, 8). Parents are the principal educators
of their children, the first teachers of life. With great clarity
Jerome, addressing a young girl's mother and then mentioning her
father, admonishes, almost expressing a fundamental duty of every human
creature who comes into existence: "May she find in you her teacher,
and may she look to you with the inexperienced wonder of childhood.
Neither in you, nor in her father should she ever see behaviour that
could lead to sin, as it could be copied. Remember that... you can
educate her more by example than with words" (Ep. 107, 9). Among
Jerome's principal intuitions as a pedagogue, one must emphasize the
importance he attributed to a healthy and integral education beginning
from early childhood, the particular responsibility belonging to
parents, the urgency of a serious moral and religious formation and the
duty to study for a more complete human formation. Moreover, an aspect
rather disregarded in ancient times but held vital by our author is the
promotion of the woman, to whom he recognizes the right to a complete
formation: human, scholastic, religious, professional. We see precisely
today how the education of the personality in its totality, the
education to responsibility before God and man, is the true condition
of all progress, all peace, all reconciliation and the exclusion of
violence. Education before God and man: it is Sacred Scripture that
offers us the guide for education and thus of true humanism.

We cannot conclude these quick notes on the great Father of the Church
without mentioning his effective contribution to safeguarding the
positive and valid elements of the ancient Hebrew, Greek and Roman
cultures for nascent Christian civilization. Jerome recognized and
assimilated the artistic values of the richness of the sentiments and
the harmony of the images present in the classics, which educate the
heart and fantasy to noble sentiments. Above all, he put at the centre
of his life and activity the Word of God, which indicates the path of
life to man and reveals the secrets of holiness to him. We cannot fail
to be deeply grateful for all of this, even in our day.

