____________________

[8]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 11 March 2009 - Saint Boniface,the
Apostle of the Germans

[9]detail of an illustration of Saint Boniface by Cornelis Bloemaert,
c.1630

1. Today, we shall reflect on a great eighth-century missionary who spread
Christianity in Central Europe, indeed also in my own country: Saint
Boniface, who has gone down in history as "the Apostle of the Germans".
We have a fair amount of information on his life, thanks to the
diligence of his biographers. He was born into an Anglo-Saxon family in
Wessex in about 675 and was baptized with the name of Winfrid. He
entered the monastery at a very early age, attracted by the monastic
ideal. Since he possessed considerable intellectual ability, he seemed
destined for a peaceful and brilliant academic career. He became a
teacher of Latin grammar, wrote several treatises and even composed
various poems in Latin. He was ordained a priest at the age of about 30
and felt called to an apostolate among the pagans on the continent. His
country, Great Britain which had been evangelized barely 100 years
earlier by Benedictines led by Saint Augustine at the time showed such
sound faith and ardent charity that it could send missionaries to
Central Europe to proclaim the Gospel there. In 716, Winfrid went to
Frisia (today Holland) with a few companions, but he encountered the
opposition of the local chieftain and his attempt at evangelization
failed. Having returned home, he did not lose heart and two years later
travelled to Rome to speak to Pope Gregory ii and receive his
instructions. One biographer recounts that the Pope welcomed him "with
a smile and a look full of kindliness", and had "important
conversations" with him in the following days, and lastly, after
conferring upon him the new name of Boniface, assigned to him, in
official letters, the mission of preaching the Gospel among the German
peoples.

Comforted and sustained by the Pope's support, Boniface embarked on the
preaching of the Gospel in those regions, fighting against pagan
worship and reinforcing the foundations of human and Christian
morality. With a deep sense of duty he wrote in one of his letters: "We
are united in the fight on the Lord's Day, because days of affliction
and wretchedness have come.... We are not mute dogs or taciturn
observers or mercenaries fleeing from wolves! On the contrary, we are
diligent Pastors who watch over Christ's flock, who proclaim God's will
to the leaders and ordinary folk, to the rich and the poor... in season
and out of season..." With his tireless activity and his gift for
organization, Boniface adaptable and friendly yet firm obtained great
results. The Pope then "declared that he wished to confer upon him the
episcopal dignity so that he might thus with greater determination
correct and lead back to the path of truth those who had strayed,
feeling supported by the greater authority of the apostolic dignity and
being much more readily accepted by all in the office of preacher, the
clearer it was that this was why he had been ordained by the Apostolic
Bishop".

The Supreme Pontiff himself consecrated Boniface "Regional Bishop",
that is, for the whole of Germany. Boniface then resumed his apostolic
labours in the territories assigned to him and extended his action also
to the Church of the Gauls: with great caution he restored discipline
in the Church, convoked various Synods to guarantee the authority of
the sacred canons and strengthened the necessary communion with the
Roman Pontiff, a point that he had very much at heart. The Successors
of Pope Gregory II also held him in the highest esteem. Gregory III
appointed him Archbishop of all the Germanic tribes, sent him the
pallium and granted him the faculties to organize the ecclesiastical
hierarchy in those regions. Pope Zacchary confirmed him in his office
and praised his dedication; Pope Stephen III, newly elected, received a
letter from him in which he expressed his filial respect.

In addition to this work of evangelization and organization of the
Church through the founding of dioceses and the celebration of Synods,
this great Bishop did not omit to encourage the foundation of various
male and female monasteries so that they would become like beacons, so
as to radiate human and Christian culture and the faith in the
territory. He summoned monks and nuns from the Benedictine monastic
communities in his homeland who gave him a most effective and
invaluable help in proclaiming the Gospel and in disseminating the
humanities and the arts among the population. Indeed, he rightly
considered that work for the Gospel must also be work for a true human
culture. Above all the Monastery of Fulda founded in about 743 was the
heart and centre of outreach of religious spirituality and culture:
there the monks, in prayer, work and penance, strove to achieve
holiness; there they trained in the study of the sacred and profane
disciplines and prepared themselves for the proclamation of the Gospel
in order to be missionaries. Thus it was to the credit of Boniface, of
his monks and nuns for women too had a very important role in this work
of evangelization that human culture, which is inseparable from faith
and reveals its beauty, flourished. Boniface himself has left us an
important intellectual corpus. First of all is his copious
correspondence, in which pastoral letters alternate with official
letters and others private in nature, which record social events but
above all reveal his richly human temperament and profound faith. In
addition he composed a treatise on the Ars grammatica in which he
explained the declinations, verbs and syntax of the Latin language, but
which also became for him a means of spreading culture and the faith.
An Ars metrica that is, an introduction on how to write poetry as well
as various poetic compositions and, lastly, a collection of 15 sermons
are also attributed to him.

Although he was getting on in years (he was almost 80), he prepared
himself for a new evangelizing mission: with about 50 monks he returned
to Frisia where he had begun his work. Almost as a prediction of his
imminent death, in alluding to the journey of life, he wrote to Bishop
Lull, his disciple and successor in the see of Mainz: "I wish to bring
to a conclusion the purpose of this journey; in no way can I renounce
my desire to set out. The day of my end is near and the time of my
death is approaching; having shed my mortal body, I shall rise to the
eternal reward. May you, my dear son, ceaselessly call the people from
the maze of error, complete the building of the Basilica of Fulda that
has already been begun, and in it lay my body, worn out by the long
years of life". While he was beginning the celebration of Mass at
Dokkum (in what today is northern Holland) on 5 June 754, he was
assaulted by a band of pagans. Advancing with a serene expression he
"forbade his followers from fighting saying, "cease, my sons, from
fighting, give up warfare, for the witness of Scripture recommends that
we do not give an eye for an eye but rather good for evil. Here is the
long awaited day, the time of our end has now come; courage in the
Lord!'" These were his last words before he fell under the blows of his
aggressors. The mortal remains of the Martyr Bishop were then taken to
the Monastery of Fulda where they received a fitting burial. One of his
first biographers had already made this judgement of him: "The holy
Bishop Boniface can call himself father of all the inhabitants of
Germany, for it was he who first brought them forth in Christ with the
words of his holy preaching, he strengthened them with his example and
lastly, he gave his life for them; no greater love than this can be
shown".

Centuries later, what message can we gather today from the teaching and
marvellous activity of this great missionary and martyr? For those who
approach Boniface, an initial fact stands out: the centrality of the
word of God, lived and interpreted in the faith of the Church, a word
that he lived, preached and witnessed to until he gave the supreme gift
of himself in martyrdom. He was so passionate about the word of God
that he felt the urgent need and duty to communicate it to others, even
at his own personal risk. This word was the pillar of the faith which
he had committed himself to spreading at the moment of his episcopal
ordination: "I profess integrally the purity of the holy Catholic faith
and with the help of God I desire to remain in the unity of this faith,
in which there is no doubt that the salvation of Christians lies". The
second most important proof that emerges from the life of Boniface is
his faithful communion with the Apostolic See, which was a firm and
central reference point of his missionary work; he always preserved
this communion as a rule of his mission and left it, as it were, as his
will. In a letter to Pope Zachary, he said: "I never cease to invite
and to submit to obedience to the Apostolic See those who desire to
remain in the Catholic faith and in the unity of the Roman Church and
all those whom God grants to me as listeners and disciples in my
mission". One result of this commitment was the steadfast spirit of
cohesion around the Successor of Peter which Boniface transmitted to
the Church in his mission territory, uniting England, Germany and
France with Rome and thereby effectively contributing to planting those
Christian roots of Europe which were to produce abundant fruit in the
centuries to come. Boniface also deserves our attention for a third
characteristic: he encouraged the encounter between the Christian-Roman
culture and the Germanic culture. Indeed, he knew that humanizing and
evangelizing culture was an integral part of his mission as Bishop. In
passing on the ancient patrimony of Christian values, he grafted on to
the Germanic populations a new, more human lifestyle, thanks to which
the inalienable rights of the person were more widely respected. As a
true son of Saint Benedict, he was able to combine prayer and labour
(manual and intellectual), pen and plough.

Boniface's courageous witness is an invitation to us all to welcome
God's word into our lives as an essential reference point, to love the
Church passionately, to feel co-responsible for her future, to seek her
unity around the Successor of Peter. At the same time, he reminds us
that Christianity, by encouraging the dissemination of culture,
furthers human progress. It is now up to us to be equal to such a
prestigious patrimony and to make it fructify for the benefit of the
generations to come.

His ardent zeal for the Gospel never fails to impress me. At the age of
41 he left a beautiful and fruitful monastic life, the life of a monk
and teacher, in order to proclaim the Gospel to the simple, to
barbarians; once again, at the age of 80, he went to a region in which
he foresaw his martyrdom.

By comparing his ardent faith, this zeal for the Gospel, with our own
often lukewarm and bureaucratized faith, we see what we must do and how
to renew our faith, in order to give the precious pearl of the Gospel
as a gift to our time.

