____________________

[8]Paenitemini - Apostolic Constitution on Penance, by Pope Paul VI, 17
February 1966

[9]official portrait of Pope Paul VI

1. "Be converted and believe in the
Gospel."

It seems to us that we must repeat these words of the Lord today at a
moment when - with the closing of the Second Vatican Ecumenical Council
- the Church continues along its path with more vigorous steps. Among
the grave and urgent problems which in fact summon our pastoral
concern, it seems to us that not the least is to remind our sons - and
all religious men of our times - of the significance and importance of
the divine precept of penitence. We are prompted to this by the fuller
and more profound vision of the Church and its relationship with the
world given us recently by the supreme ecumenical assembly.

During the council, in fact, the Church, in an effort to arrive at a
more profound mediation on the mystery of itself, examined its own
nature in all its dimensions and scrutinized its human and divine,
visible and invisible, temporal and eternal elements. By first of all
examining more thoroughly the link which binds it to Christ and His
salvific action, it has underlined more clearly how all its members are
called upon to participate in the work of Christ and therefore to
participate also in His expiation.'

In addition, it has gained a clearer awareness that, while it is by
divine vocation holy and without blemish, it is defective in its
members and in continuous need of conversion and renewal,4 a renewal
which must be implemented not only interiorly and individually but also
externally and socially.

Lastly, the Church has considered more attentively its role in the
earthly city, that is to say, its mission of showing man the right way
to use earthly goods and to collaborate in the "consecration of the
world." But at the same time it has considered more attentively its
task of prompting its sons to that salutary abstinence which will
forearm them against the danger of allowing themselves to be delayed by
the things of this world in their pilgrimage toward their home in
heaven.

For these reasons we should like today to repeat to our sons the words
spoken by Peter in his first speech after Pentecost: "Repent . . . then
for the forgiveness of your sins." And at the same time we want to
repeat once more to all the nations of the earth the invitation of Paul
to the Gentiles of Lystra: "Turn. . . to the living God."

CHAPTER I

The Church - which during the council examined with greater attention
its relations not only with the separated brethren but also with
non-Christian religions - has noted with joy that almost everywhere and
at all times penitence has held a place of great importance, since it
is closely linked with the intimate sense of religion which pervades
the life of most ancient peoples as well as with the more advanced
expressions of the great religions connected with the progress of
culture.

In the Old Testament the religious sense of penitence is revealed with
even greater richness. Even though man generally has recourse to it in
the aftermath of sin to placate the wrath of God, or on the occasion of
grave calamities, or when special dangers are imminent, or in any case
to obtain benefits from the Lord, we can nevertheless establish that
external penitential practices are accompanied by an inner attitude of
"conversion," that is to say of condemnation of and detachment from sin
and of striving toward God. One goes without food or gives away his
property (fasting is generally accompanied not only by prayer but also
by alms even after sins have been forgiven and independently of a
request for graces. One fasts or applies physical discipline to
"chastize one's own soul," to "humble oneself in the sight of his own
God," to "turn one's face toward Jehovah," to "dispose oneself to
prayer," to "understand" more intimately the things which are divine or
to prepare oneself for the encounter with God.

Penance therefore - already in the Old Testament - is a religious,
personal act which has as its aim love and surrender to God: fasting
for the sake of God, not for one's own self. Such it must remain also
in the various penitential rites sanctioned by law. When this is not
verified, the Lord is displeased with His people: "Today you have not
fasted in a way which will make your office heard on high.... Rend your
heart and not your garments, and return to the Lord your God."

The social aspect of penitence is not lacking in the Old Testament. In
fact, the penitential liturgies of the Old Covenant are not only a
collective awareness of sin but constitute in reality a condition for
belonging to the people of God.

We can further establish that penitence was represented even before
Christ as a means and a sign of perfection and sanctity. Judith,
Daniel, the prophetess Anna and many other elect souls served God day
and night with fasting and prayers, and with joy and cheerfulness.

Finally, we find among the just ones of the Old Testament those who
offered themselves to satisfy with their own personal penitence for the
sins of the community. This is what Moses did I the 40 days when he
fasted to placate the Lord for the guilt of his unfaithful people. This
above all is how the character of the Servant Jehovah is presented,
"who took on our infirmities" and in whom "the Lord hath laid on Him
the iniquity of us all."

All this, however, was but a foreshadowing of things to come. Penitence
- required by the inner life, confirmed by the religious experience of
mankind and the object of a particular precept of divine revelation -
assumes "in Christ and the Church" new dimensions infinitely broader
and more profound.

Christ, who always practiced in His life what He preached, before
beginning His ministry spent 40 days and 40 nights in prayer and
fasting, and began His public mission with the joyful message: "The
kingdom of God is at hand." To this He added the command: "Repent and
believe in the Gospel." These words constitute, in a way, a compendium
of the whole Christian life.

The kingdom of God announced by Christ can be entered only by a "change
of heart" ("metanoia"), that is to say through that intimate and total
change and renewal of the entire man - of all his opinions, judgments
and decisions - which takes place in him in the light of the sanctity
and charity of God, the sanctity and charity which was manifested to us
in the Son and communicated fully.

The invitation of the Son to "metanoia" becomes all the more
inescapable inasmuch as He not only preaches it but Himself offers an
example. Christ, in fact, is the supreme model for those doing penance.
He willed to suffer punishment for sins which were not His but those of
others.

In the presence of Christ man is illumined with a new light and
consequently recognizes the holiness of God and the gravity of sin.
Through the word of Christ a message is transmitted to him which
invites him to conversion and grants forgiveness of sins. These gifts
he fully attains in baptism.

This sacrament, in fact, configures him to the passion, death and
resurrection of the Lord, and places the whole future of the life of
the baptized under the seal of this mystery.

Therefore, following the Master, every Christian must renounce himself,
take up his own cross and participate in the sufferings of Christ. Thus
transformed into the image of Christ's death, he is made capable of
meditating on the glory of the resurrection. Furthermore, following the
Master, he can no longer live for himself, but must live for Him who
loves him and gave Himself for him. He will also have to live for his
brethren, completing "in his flesh that which is lacking in the
sufferings of Christ . . . for the benefit of his body, which is the
church."

In addition, since the Church is closely linked to Christ, the
penitence of the individual Christian also has an intimate relationship
of its own with the whole ecclesial community. In fact, not only does
he receive in the bosom of the Church through baptism the fundamental
gift of "metanoia," but this gift is restored and reinvigorated,
through the sacrament of penance, in those members of the Body of
Christ who have fallen into sin. "Those who approach the sacrament of
penance receive from the mercy of God forgiveness for offenses
committed against Him and at the same time become reconciled with the
Church on which they have inflicted a wound by sinning, and the Church
cooperates in their conversion with charity, example and prayer." And
in the Church, finally, the little acts of penitence imposed each time
in the sacrament become a form of participation in a special way in the
infinite expiation of Christ to join to the sacramental satisfaction
itself every other action he performs, his every suffering and sorrow.

Thus the task of bearing in his body and soul the death of the Lord"
affects the whole life of the baptized person at every instant and in
every aspect.

CHAPTER II

The preeminently interior and religious character of penitence and the
new wondrous aspects which it assumes "in Christ and in the Church"
neither excludes nor lessens in any way the external practice of this
virtue, but on the contrary reaffirms its necessity with particular
urgency and prompts the Church - always attentive to the signs of the
times - to seek, beyond fast and abstinence, new expressions more
suitable for the realization, according to the character of various
epochs, of the precise goal of penitence.

True penitence, however, cannot ever prescind from physical ascetism as
well. Our whole being, in fact, body and soul, (indeed the whole of
nature, even animals without reason, as Holy Scripture often points
out) must participate actively in this religious act whereby the
creature recognizes divine holiness and majesty. The necessity of the
mortification of the flesh also stands clearly revealed if we consider
the fragility of our nature, in which, since Adam's sin, flesh and
spirit have contrasting desires. This exercise of bodily mortification
- far removed from any form of stoicism - does not imply a condemnation
of the flesh which sons of God deign to assume. On the contrary
mortification aims at the "liberation" of man, who often finds himself,
because of concupiscence, almost chained by his own senses. Through
"corporal fasting" man regains strength and the "wound inflicted on the
dignity of our nature by intemperance is cured by the medicine of a
salutary abstinence.

Nevertheless, in the New Testament and in the history of the Church -
although the duty of doing penance is motivated above all by
participation in the sufferings of Christ - the necessity of an
asceticism which chastises the body and brings it into subjection is
affirmed with special insistence by the example of Christ Himself.

Against the real and ever recurring danger of formalism and pharisaism
the Divine Master in the New Covenant openly condemned - and so have
the Apostles, Fathers and supreme pontiffs - any form of penitence
which is purely external. The intimate relationship which exists in
penitence between the- external act, inner conversion, prayer and works
of charity is affirmed and widely developed in the liturgical texts and
authors of every era.

CHAPTER III

Therefore the Church - while it reaffirms the primacy of the religious
and supernatural values of penitence (values extremely suitable for
restoring to the world today a sense of the presence of God and of His
sovereignty ova man and a sense of Christ and His salvation) - invites
everyone to accompany the inner conversion of the spirit with the
voluntary exercise of external acts of penitence:

A - It insists first of all that the virtue of penitence be exercised
in persevering faithfulness to the duties of one's state in life, in
the acceptance of the difficulties arising from one's work and from
human coexistence, in a patient bearing of the trials of earthly life
and of the utter insecurity which pervades it.

B - Those members of the Church who are stricken by infirmities,
illnesses, poverty or misfortunes, or who are persecuted for the love
of justice, are invited to unite their sorrows to the suffering of
Christ in such a way that they not only satisfy more thoroughly the
precept of penitence but also obtain for the brethren a life of grace
and for themselves that beatitude which is promised in the Gospel to
those who suffer.

C - The precept of penitence must be satisfied in a more perfect way by
priests, who are more closely linked to Christ through sacred
character, as well as by those who in order to follow more closely the
abnegation of the Lord and to find an easier and more efficacious path
to the perfection of charity practice the evangelical counsels.

The Church, however, invites all Christians without distinction to
respond to the divine precept of penitence by some voluntary act, apart
from the renunciation imposed by the burdens of everyday life.

To recall and urge all the faithful to the observance of the divine
precept of penitence, the Apostolic See intends to reorganize
penitential discipline with practices more suited to our times. It is
up to the bishops - gathered in their episcopal conferences - to
establish the norms which, in their pastoral solicitude and prudence,
and with the direct knowledge they have of local conditions, they
consider the most opportune and efficacious. The following, however, is
established:

In the first place, Holy Mother Church, although it has always observed
in a special way abstinence from meat and fasting, nevertheless wants
to indicate in the traditional triad of "prayerfasting - charity" the
fundamental means of complying with the divine precepts of penitence.
These means were the same throughout the centuries, but in our time
there are special reasons whereby, according to the demands of various
localities, it is necessary to inculcate some special form of penitence
in preference to others. Therefore, where economic well-being is
greater, so much more will the witness of asceticism have to be given
in order that the sons of the Church may not be involved in the spirit
of the "world," and at the same time the witness of charity will have
to be given to the brethren who suffer poverty and hunger beyond any
barrier of nation or continent on the other hand, in countries where
the standard of living is lower, it will be more pleasing to God the
Father and more useful to the members of the Body of Christ if
Christians - while they seek in every way to promote better social
justice - offer their suffering in prayer to the Lord in close union
with the Cross of Christ.

Therefore, the Church, while preserving - where it can be more readily
observed - the custom (observed for many centuries with canonical
norms) of practicing penitence also through abstinence from meat and
fasting, intends to ratify with its prescriptions other forms of
penitence as well, provided that it seems opportune to episcopal
conferences to replace the observance of fast and abstinence with
exercises of prayer and works of charity.

In order that all the faithful, however, may be united in a common
celebration of penitence, the Apostolic See intends to establish
certain penitential days and seasons chosen among those which in the
course of the liturgical year are closer to the paschal mystery of
Christ or might be required by the special needs of the ecclesial
community.

Therefore, the following is declared and established:

I. 1. By divine law all the faithful are required to do penance.

2. The prescriptions of ecclesiastical law regarding penitence are
totally reorganized according to the following norms:

II. 1. The time of Lent preserves its penitential character. The days
of penitence to be observed under obligation through-out the Church are
all Fridays and Ash Wednesday, that is to say the first days of "Grande
Quaresima" (Great Lent), according to the diversity of the rite. Their
substantial observance binds gravely. (See note at end.)

2. Apart from the faculties referred to in VI and VIII regarding the
manner of fulfilling the precept of penitence on such days, abstinence
is to be observed on every Friday which does not fall on a day of
obligation, while abstinence and fast are to be observed on Ash
Wednesday or, according to local practice, on the first day of `Great
Lent' and on Good Friday (see note at end).

III. 1. The law of abstinence forbids the use of meat, but not of eggs,
the products of milk or condiments made of animal fat.

2. The law of fasting allows only one full meal a day, but does not
prohibit taking some food in the morning and evening, observing- -as
far as quantity and quality are concerned - approved local custom.

IV. To the law of abstinence those are bound who have completed their
14th year of age. To the law of fast those of the faithful are bound
who have completed their 21st year and up until the beginning of their
60th year. As regards those of a lesser age, pastors of souls and
parents should see to it with particular care that they are educated to
a true sense of penitence.

V. All privileges and indults, whether general or particular, are
abrogated with these norms, but nothing is changed either regarding the
vows of any physical or moral person or regarding the constitutions and
rules of any approved religious congregation or institute.

VI. 1. In accordance with the conciliar decree "Christus Dominus"
regarding the pastoral office of bishops, number 38,4, it is the task
of episcopal conferences to:

A. Transfer for just cause the days of penitence, always taking into
account the Lenten season;

B. Substitute abstinence and fast wholly or in part with other forms of
penitence and especially works of charity and the exercises of piety.

2. By way of information, episcopal conferences should communicate to
the Apostolic See what they have decided on the matter (See note at
end.)

VII. 1. While the faculties of individual bishops of dispensing,
according to the decree Christus Dominus, number 8b, remain unchanged,
pastors also for just cause and in accordance with the prescriptions of
the Ordinary may grant to individual faithful as well as individual
families dispensation or commutation of abstinence and fast into other
pious practices. The superior of a religious house or clerical
institute enjoys the same faculties for his subjects.

In the Eastern rites it is the right of the patriarch, together with
the synod or supreme authority of every rite, together with the council
of hierarchs, to determine the days of fast and abstinence in
accordance with the conciliar decree on the Eastern rites, number 23.

IX. 1. It is strongly desired that bishops and all pastors of souls, in
addition to the more frequent use of the sacrament of penance, promote
with zeal, particularly during the Lenten season, extraordinary
practices of penitence aimed at expiation and impetration.

2. It is strongly recommended to all the faithful that they keep deeply
rooted in their hearts a genuine Christian spirit of penitence to spur
them to accomplish works of charity and penitence.

X. 1. These prescriptions which, by way of exception, are promulgated
by means of L'Osservatore Romano, become effective on Ash Wednesday of
this year, that is to say on the 23rd of the present month.

2. Where particular privileges and indults have been in force until now
- whether general or particular of any kind - "vacatio legis"
Isuspension of the law] for six months from the day of promulgation is
to be regarded as granted.

We desire that these norms and prescriptions for the present and future
be established and effective notwithstanding - inasmuch as is necessary
- apostolic constitutions and regulations issued by our predecessors
and all other prescriptions, even if worthy of particular mention and
revocation.

