____________________

[9]Pope Francis - General Audience, 3 April 2013

1. Dear Brothers and Sisters,

Today we turn to the Catechism of the Year of Faith. In the Creed we
repeat this phrase: "He rose again on the third day, in accordance with
the Scriptures". This is the very event that we are celebrating: the
Resurrection of Jesus, the center of the Christian message that has
resounded since the beginning and has been handed down so that it may
reach us today. Saint Paul writes to the Christians of Corinth: "For I
handed on to you ...what I also received: that Christ died for our sins
in accordance with the scriptures; that he was buried; that he was
raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures; that he
appeared to Cephas, then to the Twelve"(1 Cor 15:3-5). This brief
confession of faith announces the Paschal Mystery, with the first
appearances of the Risen Christ to Peter and the Twelve: the Death and
Resurrection of Jesus is the heart of our hope. Without this faith in
the Death and Resurrection of Jesus our hope would be weak, but it
wouldn'0t even be hope, the Death and Resurrection of Jesus is the
heart of our hope. The Apostle says: "If Christ has not been raised,
your faith is vain; you are still in your sins" (v. 17).

Unfortunately, there have often been attempts to obscure faith in the
Resurrection of Jesus, and doubts have crept in even among believers
themselves. A watered down faith, as we would say, not a strong faith.
This is because of superficiality, sometimes because of indifference,
occupied by a thousand things considered more important than the faith,
or because of a purely horizontal vision of life. But it is the
Resurrection that gives us the greatest hope, because it opens our
lives and the life of the world to the eternal future of God, to full
happiness, to the certainty that evil, sin, death can be defeated. And
this leads us to live everyday realities with more confidence, to face
them with courage and commitment. The Resurrection of Christ shines a
new light on these daily realities. The Resurrection of Christ is our
strength!

But how was the truth of faith in Christ's Resurrection transmitted?
There are two kinds of witness in the New Testament: some are in the
form of the profession of the faith, namely, synthetic formulas that
indicate the center of the faith. Instead, others are in the form of an
account of the event of the Resurrection and the facts connected to it.
The form of the profession of faith, for example, is what we have just
heard, or that of the Letter to the Romans where Paul writes: " for, if
you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your
heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved "(10.9).
From the earliest days of the Church, faith in the Mystery of Death and
Resurrection of Jesus is steadfast and clear.

Today, however, I would like to dwell the second, on testimony in the
form of the accounts that we find in the Gospels. First, we note that
the first witnesses to this event were the women. At dawn, they go to
the tomb to anoint the body of Jesus, and find the first sign: the
empty tomb (Mk 16:1). This is followed by an encounter with a Messenger
of God who proclaims: Jesus of Nazareth, the Crucified One, he is not
here, he is risen (cf. vv. 5-6). The women are driven by love and know
how to accept this proclamation with faith: they believe, and
immediately transmit it, they do not keep it for themselves. They
cannot contain the joy of knowing that Jesus is alive, the hope that
fills their heart. This should also be the same in our lives. Let us
feel the joy of being Christian! We believe in the Risen One who has
conquered evil and death! Let us also have the courage to "go out" to
bring this joy and light to all the places of our lives! The
Resurrection of Christ is our greatest certainty, it is our most
precious treasure! How can we not share this treasure, this beautiful
certainty with others! It's not just for us it's to be transmitted,
shared with others this is our testimony!

Another element. In the professions of faith of the New Testament, only
men are remembered as witnesses of the Resurrection, the Apostles, but
not the women. This is because, according to the Jewish Law of the
time, women and children were not considered reliable, credible
witnesses. In the Gospels, however, women have a primary, fundamental
role. Here we can see an argument in favor of the historicity of the
Resurrection: if it were a invented, in the context of that time it
would not have been linked to the testimony of women. Instead, the
evangelists simply narrate what happened: the women were the first
witnesses. This tells us that God does not choose according to human
criteria: the first witnesses of the birth of Jesus are the shepherds,
simple and humble people, the first witnesses of the Resurrection are
women. This is beautiful, and this is the mission of women, of mothers
and women, to give witness to their children and grandchildren that
Christ is Risen! Mothers go forward with this witness! What matters to
God is our heart, if we are open to Him, if we are like trusting
children. But this also leads us to reflect on how in the Church and in
the journey of faith, women have had and still have a special role in
opening doors to the Lord, in following him and communicating his face,
because the eyes of faith always need the simple and profound look of
love. The Apostles and disciples find it harder to believe in the Risen
Christ, not the women however! Peter runs to the tomb, but stops before
the empty tomb; Thomas has to touch the wounds of the body of Jesus
with his hands. In our journey of faith it is important to know and
feel that God loves us, do not be afraid to love: faith is professed
with the mouth and heart, with the word and love.

After the apparitions to women, there were others: Jesus becomes
present in a new way: He is the Crucified One, but his body is
glorious; He did not return to an earthly life, but a new condition. At
first they did not recognize him, and only through his words and deeds
were their eyes opened: the encounter with the Risen Lord transforms,
it gives new strength to faith, an unshakable foundation. The Risen
Christ also reveals Himself to us with many signs: Sacred Scripture,
the Eucharist, the other Sacraments, charity, these gestures of love
bring a ray of the Risen One.

Let us be enlightened by the Resurrection of Christ, let us be
transformed by His power, so that through us the signs of death give
way to signs of life in the world! I see that there are many young
people in the Square! Young boys and girls, to you I say bring forth
this certainty to the world: the Lord is Alive and walks beside us on
our life's journey! Bring forth this hope, be anchored in this hope,
the hope that comes from heaven! Be anchored and bring forth the hope!
You witnesses of Christ bring forth hope to this world that is aged by
wars and sin! Go forward young people!

