____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 17 May 2006 - Peter, the fisherman

1. Saint Peter the Apostle

Dear Brothers and Sisters,

In the new series of Catecheses, we have tried above all to understand
better what the Church is and what idea the Lord has about this new
family of his. Then we said that the Church exists in people, and we
have seen that the Lord entrusted this new reality, the Church, to the
Twelve Apostles. Let us now look at them one by one, to understand
through these people what it means to experience the Church and what it
means to follow Jesus. We begin with Saint Peter.

After Jesus, Peter is the figure best known and most frequently cited
in the New Testament writings: he is mentioned 154 times with the
nickname of Pétros, "rock", which is the Greek translation of the
Aramaic name Jesus gave him directly: Cephas, attested to nine times,
especially in Paul's Letters; then the frequently occurring name Simon
(75 times) must be added; this is a hellenization of his original
Hebrew name "Symeon" (twice: Acts 15: 14; II Pt 1: 1).

Son of John (cf. Jn 1: 42) or, in the Aramaic form, "Bar-Jona, son of
Jona" (cf. Mt 16: 17), Simon was from Bethsaida (cf. Jn 1: 44), a
little town to the east of the Sea of Galilee, from which Philip also
came and of course, Andrew, the brother of Simon.

He spoke with a Galilean accent. Like his brother, he too was a
fisherman: with the family of Zebedee, the father of James and John, he
ran a small fishing business on the Lake of Gennesaret (cf. Lk 5: 10).
Thus, he must have been reasonably well-off and was motivated by a
sincere interest in religion, by a desire for God - he wanted God to
intervene in the world -, a desire that impelled him to go with his
brother as far as Judea to hear the preaching of John the Baptist (Jn
1: 35-42).

He was a believing and practising Jew who trusted in the active
presence of God in his people's history and grieved not to see God's
powerful action in the events he was witnessing at that time. He was
married and his mother-in-law, whom Jesus was one day to heal, lived in
the city of Capernaum, in the house where Simon also stayed when he was
in that town (cf. Mt 8: 14ff.; Mk 1: 29ff.; Lk 4: 38ff.).

Recent archaeological excavations have brought to light, beneath the
octagonal mosaic paving of a small Byzantine church, the remains of a
more ancient church built in that house, as the graffiti with
invocations to Peter testify.

The Gospels tell us that Peter was one of the first four disciples of
the Nazarene (cf. Lk 5: 1-11), to whom a fifth was added, complying
with the custom of every Rabbi to have five disciples (cf. Lk 5: 27:
called Levi). When Jesus went from five disciples to 12 (cf. Lk 9:
1-6), the newness of his mission became evident: he was not one of the
numerous rabbis but had come to gather together the eschatological
Israel, symbolized by the number 12, the number of the tribes of
Israel.

Simon appears in the Gospels with a determined and impulsive character:
he is ready to assert his own opinions even with force (remember him
using the sword in the Garden of Olives: cf. Jn 18: 10ff.). At the same
time he is also ingenuous and fearful, yet he is honest, to the point
of the most sincere repentance (cf. Mt 26: 75).

The Gospels enable us to follow Peter step by step on his spiritual
journey. The starting point was Jesus' call. It happened on an ordinary
day while Peter was busy with his fisherman's tasks. Jesus was at the
Lake of Gennesaret and crowds had gathered around him to listen to him.
The size of his audience created a certain discomfort. The Teacher saw
two boats moored by the shore; the fishermen had disembarked and were
washing their nets. He then asked permission to board the boat, which
was Simon's, and requested him to put out a little from the land.
Sitting on that improvised seat, he began to teach the crowds from the
boat (cf. Lk 5: 1-3). Thus, the boat of Peter becomes the chair of
Jesus.

When he had finished speaking he said to Simon: "Put out into the deep
and let down your nets for a catch". And Simon answered, "Master, we
toiled all night and took nothing! But at your word I will let down the
nets" (Lk 5: 4-5). Jesus, a carpenter, was not a skilled fisherman: yet
Simon the fisherman trusted this Rabbi, who did not give him answers
but required him to trust him.

His reaction to the miraculous catch showed his amazement and fear:
"Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord" (Lk 5: 8). Jesus
replied by inviting him to trust and to be open to a project that would
surpass all his expectations. "Do not be afraid; henceforth, you will
be catching men" (Lk 5: 10). Peter could not yet imagine that one day
he would arrive in Rome and that here he would be a "fisher of men" for
the Lord. He accepted this surprising call, he let himself be involved
in this great adventure: he was generous; he recognized his limits but
believed in the one who was calling him and followed the dream of his
heart. He said "yes", a courageous and generous "yes", and became a
disciple of Jesus.

Peter was to live another important moment of his spiritual journey
near Caesarea Philippi when Jesus asked the disciples a precise
question: "Who do men say that I am?" (Mk 8: 27). But for Jesus hearsay
did not suffice. He wanted from those who had agreed to be personally
involved with him a personal statement of their position. Consequently,
he insisted: "But who do you say that I am?" (Mk 8: 29).

It was Peter who answered on behalf of the others: "You are the Christ"
(ibid.), that is, the Messiah. Peter's answer, which was not revealed
to him by "flesh and blood" but was given to him by the Father who is
in heaven (cf. Mt 16: 17), contains as in a seed the future confession
of faith of the Church. However, Peter had not yet understood the
profound content of Jesus' Messianic mission, the new meaning of this
word: Messiah.

He demonstrates this a little later, inferring that the Messiah whom he
is following in his dreams is very different from God's true plan. He
was shocked by the Lord's announcement of the Passion and protested,
prompting a lively reaction from Jesus (cf. Mk 8: 32-33).

Peter wanted as Messiah a "divine man" who would fulfil the
expectations of the people by imposing his power upon them all: we
would also like the Lord to impose his power and transform the world
instantly. Jesus presented himself as a "human God", the Servant of
God, who turned the crowd's expectations upside-down by taking a path
of humility and suffering.

This is the great alternative that we must learn over and over again:
to give priority to our own expectations, rejecting Jesus, or to accept
Jesus in the truth of his mission and set aside all too human
expectations.

Peter, impulsive as he was, did not hesitate to take Jesus aside and
rebuke him. Jesus' answer demolished all his false expectations,
calling him to conversion and to follow him: "Get behind me, Satan! For
you are not on the side of God, but of men" (Mk 8: 33). It is not for
you to show me the way; I take my own way and you should follow me.

Peter thus learned what following Jesus truly means. It was his second
call, similar to Abraham's in Genesis 22, after that in Genesis 12: "If
any man would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross
and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it; and
whoever loses his life for my sake and the Gospel's will save it" (Mk
8: 34-35). This is the demanding rule of the following of Christ: one
must be able, if necessary, to give up the whole world to save the true
values, to save the soul, to save the presence of God in the world (cf.
Mk 8: 36-37). And though with difficulty, Peter accepted the invitation
and continued his life in the Master's footsteps.

And it seems to me that these conversions of Saint Peter on different
occasions, and his whole figure, are a great consolation and a great
lesson for us. We too have a desire for God, we too want to be
generous, but we too expect God to be strong in the world and to
transform the world on the spot, according to our ideas and the needs
that we perceive.

God chooses a different way. God chooses the way of the transformation
of hearts in suffering and in humility. And we, like Peter, must
convert, over and over again. We must follow Jesus and not go before
him: it is he who shows us the way.

So it is that Peter tells us: You think you have the recipe and that it
is up to you to transform Christianity, but it is the Lord who knows
the way. It is the Lord who says to me, who says to you: follow me! And
we must have the courage and humility to follow Jesus, because he is
the Way, the Truth and the Life.

                       - [11]Pope [12]Benedict XVI, [13]17 May [14]2006

