____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 10 December 2008 - Saint Paul:
Theology of the Sacraments

1. Saint Paul the Apostle In following Saint Paul, we saw two things
in the Catechesis last Wednesday. The first is that our human history
has been polluted from the outset by the misuse of created freedom
which seeks emancipation from the divine Will. Thus, it does not find
true freedom but instead opposes truth and consequently falsifies our
human realities. It falsifies above all the fundamental relationships:
with God, between a man and a woman, between humankind and the earth.
We said that this contamination permeates the whole fabric of our
history and that this hereditary defect has continued to spread within
it and can now be seen everywhere. This was the first thing. The second
is this: we have learned from Saint Paul that a new beginning exists in
history and of history in Jesus Christ, the One who is man and God.
With Jesus, who comes from God, a new history begins that is shaped by
his "yes" to the Father and is therefore not founded on the pride of a
false emancipation but on love and truth.

However, the question now arises: how can we enter this new beginning,
this new history? How does this new history reach me? We are inevitably
linked to the first, contaminated history through our biological
descendance, since we all belong to the one body of humanity; but how
is communion with Jesus, how is new birth achieved in order to enter
into the new humanity? How does Jesus come into my life, into my being?
The fundamental response of Saint Paul and of the whole of the New
Testament is that he comes through the action of the Holy Spirit. If
the first history starts, so to speak, with biology, the second starts
with the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of the Risen Christ. At Pentecost this
Spirit created the beginning of the new humanity, the new community,
the Church, the Body of Christ.

However we must be even more concrete: how can this Spirit of Christ,
the Holy Spirit, become my Spirit? The answer is that this happens in
three ways that are closely interconnected. This is the first: the
Spirit of Christ knocks at the door of my heart, moves me from within.
However since the new humanity must be a true body, since the Spirit
must gather us together and really create a community, since overcoming
divisions and creating a gathering of the dispersed is characteristic
of the new beginning, this Spirit of Christ uses two elements visibly
aggregated: the Word of the proclamation and the sacraments, Baptism
and the Eucharist in particular. In his Letter to the Romans, Saint
Paul says: "If you confess with your lips that Jesus is Lord and
believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be
saved" (10: 9), in other words, you will enter the new history, a
history of life and not of death. Saint Paul then continues: "But how
are men to call upon him in whom they have not believed? And how are
they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they
to hear without a preacher? And how can men preach unless they are
sent?" (Rm 10: 14-15). In an ensuing passage he says further: "faith
comes from what is heard" (Rm 10: 17). Faith is not a product of our
thought or our reflection; it is something new that we cannot invent
but only receive as a gift, as a new thing produced by God. Moreover,
faith does not come from reading but from listening. It is not only
something interior but also a relationship with Someone. It implies an
encounter with the proclamation; it implies the existence of the Other,
who it proclaims, and creates communion.

And lastly, proclamation: the one who proclaims does not speak on his
own behalf but is sent. He fits into a structure of mission that begins
with Jesus, sent by the Father, passes through the Apostles the term
"apostles" means "those who are sent" and continues in the ministry, in
the missions passed down by the Apostles. The new fabric of history
takes shape in this structure of missions in which we ultimately hear
God himself speaking, his personal Word, the Son speaks with us,
reaches us. The Word was made flesh, Jesus, in order really to create a
new humanity. The word of proclamation thus becomes a sacrament in
Baptism, which is rebirth from water and the Spirit, as Saint John was
to say. In the sixth chapter of the Letter to the Romans, Saint Paul
speaks of Baptism in a very profound way. We have heard the text but it
might be useful to repeat it: "Do you not know that all of us who have
been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were
buried therefore with him by Baptism into death, so that as Christ was
raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in
newness of life" (6: 3-4).

In this Catechesis I cannot of course enter into a detailed
interpretation of this far from easy text. I would like to note briefly
just three points. The first: "we have been baptized" is a passive. No
one can baptize himself, he needs the other. No one can become
Christian on his own. Becoming Christian is a passive process. Only by
another can we be made Christians and this "other" who makes us
Christians, who gives us the gift of faith, is in the first instance
the community of believers, the Church. From the Church we receive
faith, Baptism. Unless we let ourselves be formed by this community we
do not become Christians. An autonomous, self-produced Christianity is
a contradiction in itself. In the first instance, this "other" is the
community of believers, the Church, yet in the second instance this
community does not act on its own either, according to its own ideas
and desires. The community also lives in the same passive process:
Christ alone can constitute the Church. Christ is the true giver of the
sacraments. This is the first point: no one baptizes himself, no one
makes himself a Christian. We become Christians.

This is the second point: Baptism is more than a cleansing. It is death
and resurrection. Paul himself, speaking in the Letter to the Galatians
of the turning point in his life brought about by his encounter with
the Risen Christ, describes it with the words: I am dead. At that
moment a new life truly begins. Becoming Christian is more than a
cosmetic operation that would add something beautiful to a more or less
complete existence. It is a new beginning, it is rebirth: death and
resurrection. Obviously in the resurrection what was good in the
previous existence reemerges.

The third point is: matter is part of the sacrament. Christianity is
not a purely spiritual reality. It implies the body. It implies the
cosmos. It is extended toward the new earth and the new heavens. Let us
return to the last words of Saint Paul's text. In this way he said, "we
too might walk in newness of life". It constitutes an examination of
conscience for all of us: to walk in newness of life. This applies to
Baptism.

We now come to the Sacrament of the Eucharist. I have already shown in
other Catecheses the profound respect with which Saint Paul transmits
verbally the tradition of the Eucharist which he received from the
witnesses of the last night themselves. He passes on these words as a
precious treasure entrusted to his fidelity. Thus we really hear in
these words the witnesses of the last night. We heard the words of the
Apostle: "For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you,
that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and
when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, "This is my Body which
is for you. Do this in remembrance of me'. In the same way also the
cup, after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my Blood.
Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me'" (1 Cor 11:
23-35). It is an inexhaustible text. Here too, in this Catechesis, I
have only two brief remarks to make. Paul transmits the Lord's words on
the cup like this: this cup is "the new covenant in my Blood". These
words conceal an allusion to two fundamental texts of the Old
Testament. The first refers to the promise of a new covenant in the
Book of the Prophet Jeremiah. Jesus tells the disciples and tells us:
now, at this moment, with me and with my death the new covenant is
fulfilled; by my Blood this new history of humanity begins in the
world. However, also present in these words is a reference to the
moment of the covenant on Sinai, when Moses said: "Behold the blood of
the covenant which the Lord has made with you in accordance with all
these words" (Ex 24: 8). Then it was the blood of animals. The blood of
animals could only be the expression of a desire, an expectation of the
true sacrifice, the true worship. With the gift of the cup, the Lord
gives us the true sacrifice. The one true sacrifice is the love of the
Son. With the gift of this love, eternal love, the world enters into
the new covenant. Celebrating the Eucharist means that Christ gives us
himself, his love, to configure us to himself and thereby to create the
new world.

The second important aspect of the teaching on the Eucharist appears in
the same First Letter to the Corinthians where Saint Paul says: "the
cup of blessing which we bless, is it not a participation in the Blood
of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not a participation in the
Body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one
body, for we all partake of the one bread" (10: 16-17). In these words
the personal and social character of the Sacrament of the Eucharist
likewise appears. Christ personally unites himself with each one of us,
but Christ himself is also united with the man and the woman who are
next to me. And the bread is for me but it is also for the other. Thus
Christ unites all of us with himself and all of us with one another. In
communion we receive Christ. But Christ is likewise united with my
neighbour: Christ and my neighbour are inseparable in the Eucharist.
And thus we are all one bread and one body. A Eucharist without
solidarity with others is a Eucharist abused. And here we come to the
root and, at the same time, the kernel of the doctrine on the Church as
the Body of Christ, of the Risen Christ.

We also perceive the full realism of this doctrine. Christ gives us his
Body in the Eucharist, he gives himself in his Body and thus makes us
his Body, he unites us with his Risen Body. If man eats ordinary bread,
in the digestive process this bread becomes part of his body,
transformed into a substance of human life. But in holy Communion the
inverse process is brought about. Christ, the Lord, assimilates us into
himself, introducing us into his glorious Body, and thus we all become
his Body. Whoever reads only chapter 12 of the First Letter to the
Corinthians and chapter 12 of the Letter to the Romans might think that
the words about the Body of Christ as an organism of charisms is only a
sort of sociological and theological parable. Actually in Roman
political science this parable of the body with various members that
form a single unit was used referring to the State itself, to say that
the State is an organism in which each one has his role, that the
multiplicity and diversity of functions form one body and each one has
his place. If one reads only chapter 12 of the First Letter to the
Corinthians one might think that Paul limited himself to transferring
this alone to the Church, that here too it was solely a question of a
sociology of the Church. Yet, bearing in mind this chapter 10, we see
that the realism of the Church is something quite different, far deeper
and truer than that of a State organism. Because Christ really gives
his Body and makes us his Body. We really become united with the Risen
Body of Christ and thereby are united with one another. The Church is
not only a corporation like the State is, she is a body. She is not
merely an organization but a real organism.

Lastly, just a very brief word on the Sacrament of Matrimony. In the
Letter to the Corinthians there are only a few references whereas in
the Letter to the Ephesians he has truly developed a profound theology
of Matrimony. Here Paul defines Matrimony as a "great mystery". He says
so "in reference to Christ and the Church" (5: 32) A reciprocity in a
vertical dimension should be pointed out in this passage. Mutual
submission must use the language of love whose model is Christ's love
for the Church. This Christ-Church relationship makes the theological
aspect of matrimonial love fundamental, exalting the affective
relationship between the spouses. A genuine marriage will be well lived
if in the constant human and emotional growth an effort is made to
remain continually bound to the efficacy of the Word and to the meaning
of Baptism. Christ sanctified the Church, purifying her through the
washing with water, accompanied by the Word. Apart from making it
visible, a participation in the Body and Blood of the Lord does no more
than seal a union rendered indissoluble by grace.

And lastly let us listen to Saint Paul's words to the Philippians: "the
Lord is at hand" (Phil 4: 5). It seems to me that we have understood
that the Lord is close to us throughout our life through the Word and
through the sacraments. Let us pray that by his closeness we may always
be moved in the depths of our being so that joy may be born that joy
which is born when Jesus really is at hand.

