____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 10 January 2007 - Saint Stephen,
the Protomartyr

[10][saint-stephen-the-martyr-01.jpg?resize=167%2C264]

1. Stephen, the Protomartyr

Dear Brothers and Sisters,

After the period of festivity, we return to our Catecheses. I have
meditated with you on the figures of the Twelve Apostles and on St
Paul. We then began to reflect on other figures of the newborn Church
and so let us consider today the person of St Stephen, whom the Church
commemorates the day after Christmas.

St Stephen is the most representative of a group of seven companions.
Tradition sees in this group the seed of the future ministry of
"deacons", although it must be pointed out that this category is not
present in the Book of Acts. In any case, Stephen's importance is due
to the fact that Luke, in his important book, dedicates two whole
chapters to him.

Luke's narrative starts with the observation of a widespread division
in the primitive Church of Jerusalem: indeed, she consisted entirely of
Christians of Jewish origin, but some came from the land of Israel and
were called "Hebrews", while others, of the Old Testament Jewish faith,
came from the Greek-speaking Diaspora and were known as "Hellenists".
This was the new problem: the most destitute of the Hellenists,
especially widows deprived of any social support, ran the risk of being
neglected in the daily distribution of their rations. To avoid this
problem, the Apostles, continuing to devote themselves to prayer and
the ministry of the Word, decided to appoint for this duty "seven men
of good repute, full of the Spirit and of wisdom" to help them (Acts 6:
2-4), that is, by carrying out a social and charitable service.

To this end, as Luke wrote, at the Apostles' invitation the disciples
chose seven men. We are even given their names. They were: "Stephen, a
man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor,
Timon, Parmenas and Nicolaus. These they set before the Apostles, and
they prayed and laid their hands upon them" (cf. Acts 6: 5-6).

The act of the laying on of hands can have various meanings. In the Old
Testament, this gesture meant above all the transmission of an
important office, just as Moses laid his hands on Joshua (cf. Nm 27:
18-23), thereby designating his successor. Along the same lines, the
Church of Antioch would also use this gesture in sending out Paul and
Barnabas on their mission to the peoples of the world (cf. Acts 13: 3).

The two Pauline Letters addressed to Timothy (cf. I Tm 4: 14; II Tm 1:
6) refer to a similar imposition of hands on Timothy, to confer upon
him an official responsibility. From what we read in the First Letter
to Timothy, we can deduce that this was an important action to be
carried out after discernment: "Do not be hasty in the laying on of
hands, nor participate in another man's sins" (5: 22).

Thus, we see that the act of the laying on of hands developed along the
lines of a sacramental sign. In the case of Stephen and his companions,
it was certainly an official conferral of an office by the Apostles,
but at the same time an entreaty for the grace to carry it out.

The most important thing to note is that in addition to charitable
services, Stephen also carried out a task of evangelization among his
compatriots, the so-called "Hellenists". Indeed, Luke insists on the
fact that Stephen, "full of grace and power" (Acts 6: 8), presented in
Jesus' Name a new interpretation of Moses and of God's Law itself. He
reread the Old Testament in the light of the proclamation of Christ's
death and Resurrection. He gave the Old Testament a Christological
reinterpretation and provoked reactions from the Jews, who took his
words to be blasphemous (cf. Acts 6: 11-14).

For this reason he was condemned to stoning. And St Luke passes on to
us the saint's last discourse, a synthesis of his preaching. Just as
Jesus had shown the disciples of Emmaus that the whole of the Old
Testament speaks of him, of his Cross and his Resurrection, so St
Stephen, following Jesus' teaching, interpreted the whole of the Old
Testament in a Christological key. He shows that the mystery of the
Cross stands at the centre of the history of salvation as recounted in
the Old Testament; it shows that Jesus, Crucified and Risen, is truly
the goal of all this history.

St Stephen also shows that the cult of the temple was over and that
Jesus, the Risen One, was the new, true "temple". It was precisely this
"no" to the temple and to its cult that led to the condemnation of St
Stephen, who at this moment, St Luke tells us, gazed into heaven and
saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God, and
seeing heaven, God and Jesus, St Stephen said, "Behold, I see the
heavens opened, and the Son of man standing at the right hand of God"
(cf. Acts 7: 56).

This was followed by his martyrdom, modelled in fact on the passion of
Jesus himself, since he delivered his own spirit to the "Lord Jesus"
and prayed that the sin of those who killed him would not be held
against them (cf. Acts 7: 59-60).

The place of St Stephen's martyrdom in Jerusalem has traditionally been
located outside the Damascus Gate, to the north, where indeed the
Church of Saint-Étienne [St Stephen] stands beside the famous École
Biblique of the Dominicans. The killing of Stephen, the first martyr of
Christ, unleashed a local persecution of Christ's disciples (cf. Acts
8: 1), the first one in the history of the Church. It was these
circumstances that impelled the group of Judeo-Hellenist Christians to
flee from Jerusalem and scatter. Hounded out of Jerusalem, they became
itinerant missionaries: "Those who were scattered went about preaching
the word" (Acts 8: 4).

Their persecution and consequent dispersion became a mission. Thus, the
Gospel spread also to Samaria, Phoenicia and Syria, as far as the great
city of Antioch where, according to Luke, it was proclaimed for the
first time also to the pagans (cf. Acts 11: 19-20), and where, for the
first time the name "Christians" was used (Acts 11: 26).

In particular, Luke noted that those who stoned Stephen "laid down
their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul" (Acts 7: 58), the
same man who from being a persecutor was to become an outstanding
Apostle of the Gospel.

This means that the young Saul must have heard Stephen's preaching and
must therefore have been acquainted with its principal content. And St
Paul was probably among those who, following and listening to this
discourse, "were enraged and... ground their teeth against him" (Acts
7: 54).

And at this point, we can see the marvels of divine Providence. After
his encounter with the Risen Christ on the road to Damascus, Saul, a
relentless enemy of Stephen's vision, took up the Christological
interpretation of the Old Testament made by the First Martyr, deepening
and completing it, and consequently became the "Apostle to the
Gentiles".

The Law is fulfilled, he taught, in the Cross of Christ. And faith in
Christ, communion with Christ's love, is the true fulfilment of all the
Law. This is the content of Paul's preaching. He showed in this way
that the God of Abraham had become the God of all. And all believers in
Jesus Christ, as children of Abraham, shared in the promises. St
Stephen's vision was brought about in St Paul's mission.

Stephen's story tells us many things: for example, that charitable
social commitment must never be separated from the courageous
proclamation of the faith. He was one of the seven made responsible
above all for charity. But it was impossible to separate charity and
faith. Thus, with charity, he proclaimed the crucified Christ, to the
point of accepting even martyrdom. This is the first lesson we can
learn from the figure of St Stephen: charity and the proclamation of
faith always go hand in hand.

Above all, St Stephen speaks to us of Christ, of the Crucified and
Risen Christ as the centre of history and our life. We can understand
that the Cross remains forever the centre of the Church's life and also
of our life. In the history of the Church, there will always be passion
and persecution. And it is persecution itself which, according to
Tertullian's famous words, becomes "the seed of Christians", the source
of mission for Christians to come.

I cite his words: "We multiply wherever we are mown down by you; the
blood of Christians is seed..." (Apology 50, 13): Plures efficimur
quoties metimur a vobis: semen est sanguis christianorum. But in our
life too, the Cross that will never be absent, becomes a blessing.

And by accepting our cross, knowing that it becomes and is a blessing,
we learn Christian joy even in moments of difficulty. The value of
witness is irreplaceable, because the Gospel leads to it and the Church
is nourished by it. St Stephen teaches us to treasure these lessons, he
teaches us to love the Cross, because it is the path on which Christ
comes among us ever anew.

                 - Pope Benedict XVI, General Audience, 10 January 2007

