____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 15 October 2008 - Saint Paul's
Ecclesiological Dimension

1. Saint Paul the Apostle

In last Wednesday's Catechesis I spoke of
Paul's relationship with the pre-Paschal Jesus in his earthly life. The
question was: "What did Paul know about Jesus' life, his words, his
Passion?". Today I would like to speak about Saint Paul's teaching on
the Church. We must start by noting that this word "Chiesa" in Italian
as in French "Ãnglise" and in Spanish "Iglesia" comes from the Greek
"ekklesia". It comes from the Old Testament and means the assembly of
the People of Israel, convoked by God. It particularly means the
exemplary assembly at the foot of Mount Sinai. This word now means the
new community of believers in Christ who feel that they are God's
assembly, the new convocation of all the peoples by God and before him.
The term ekklesia comes for the first time from the pen of Paul, the
first author of a Christian text. It makes its first appearance in the
incipit of his First Letter to the Thessalonians, where Paul textually
addresses "the Church of the Thessalonians" (cf. also "the Church of
the Laodiceans" in Col 4: 16). In other Letters he speaks of the Church
of God which is at Corinth (1 Corinthians 1:2; 2 Corinthians 1:1) and
of the Churches of Galatia (Galatians 1: 2, etc.) particular Churches
therefore but he also says he persecuted "the Church of God": not a
specific local community, but "the Church of God". Thus we see that
this word, "Church", has a multi-dimensional meaning: it indicates a
part of God's assembly in a specific place (a city, a country, a house)
but it also means the Church as a whole. And thus we see that "the
Church of God" is not only a collection of various local Churches but
that these various local Churches in turn make up one Church of God.
All together they are "the Church of God" which precedes the individual
local Churches and is expressed or brought into being in them.

It is important to observe that the word "Church" almost always appears
with the additional qualification "of God": she is not a human
association, born from ideas or common interests, but a convocation of
God. He has convoked her, thus, in all her manifestations she is one.
The oneness of God creates the oneness of the Church in all the places
in which she is found. Later, in the Letter to the Ephesians, Paul
richly elaborated the concept of the Church's oneness, in continuity
with the concept of the People of God, Israel, considered by the
prophets as "God's bride" called to live in a spousal relationship with
him. Paul presents the one Church of God as "Christ's bride" in love,
one body and one spirit with Christ himself. It is well known that as a
young man Paul was a fierce adversary of the new movement constituted
by the Church of Christ. He was opposed to this new movement because he
saw it as a threat to fidelity to the tradition of the People of God,
inspired by faith in the one God. This fidelity was expressed above all
in circumcision, in the observance of the rules of religious purity,
abstention from certain foods and respect for the Sabbath. The
Israelites had paid for this fidelity with the blood of martyrs in the
period of the Maccabees, when the Hellenistic regime wanted to force
all peoples to conform to the one Hellenistic culture. Many Israelites
spilled their blood to defend the proper vocation of Israel. The
martyrs paid with their lives for the identity of their people who
expressed themselves through these elements. After his encounter with
the Risen Christ, Paul understood that Christians were not traitors; on
the contrary, in the new situation the God of Israel, through Christ,
had extended his call to all the peoples, becoming the God of all
peoples. In this way fidelity to the one God was achieved. Distinctive
signs constituted by special rules and observances were no longer
necessary since all were called, in their variety, to belong to the one
People of God in the "Church of God" in Christ.

One thing was immediately clear to Paul in his new situation: the
fundamental, foundational value of Christ and of the "word" that he was
proclaiming. Paul knew not only that one does not become Christian by
coercion but also that in the internal configuration of the new
community the institutional element was inevitably linked to the living
"word", to the proclamation of the living Christ through whom God opens
himself to all peoples and unites them in one People of God. It is
symptomatic that in the Acts of the Apostles Luke twice uses, also with
regard to Paul, the phrase "to speak the word" (cf. Acts 4: 29, 31; 8:
25; 11: 19; 13: 46; 14: 25; 16: 6, 32) evidently with the intention of
giving the maximum emphasis to the crucial importance of the "word" of
proclamation. In practice this word is constituted by the Cross and the
Resurrection of Christ in which the Scriptures found fulfilment. The
Paschal Mystery, which brought the Apostle to the turning point in his
life on the road to Damascus, obviously lies at the heart of his
preaching (1 Corinthians 2: 2; 15: 14). This Mystery, proclaimed in the
Word, is brought about in the Sacraments of Baptism and of the
Eucharist and then becomes reality in Christian love. Paul's only goal
in his work of evangelization is to establish the community of
believers in Christ. This idea is inherent in the actual etymology of
the term ekklesia, which Paul, and with him all Christendom, preferred
to the term "synagogue": not only because the former is originally more
"secular" (deriving from the Greek practice of the political assembly
which was not exactly religious), but also because it directly involves
the more theological idea of a call ab extra, and is not, therefore, a
mere gathering; believers are called by God, who gathers them in a
community, his Church.

Along these lines we can also understand the original concept of the
Church exclusively Pauline as the "Body of Christ". In this regard it
is necessary to bear in mind the two dimensions of this concept. One is
sociological in character, according to which the body is made up of
its elements and would not exist without them. This interpretation
appears in the Letter to the Romans and in the First Letter to the
Corinthians, in which Paul uses an image that already existed in Roman
sociology: he says that a people is like a body with its different
parts, each of which has its own function but all together, even its
smallest and seemingly most insignificant parts are necessary if this
body is to be able to live and carry out its functions. The Apostle
appropriately observes that in the Church there are many vocations:
prophets, apostles, teachers, simple people, all are called to practise
charity every day, all are necessary in order to build the living unity
of this spiritual organism. The other interpretation refers to the
actual Body of Christ. Paul holds that the Church is not only an
organism but really becomes the Body of Christ in the Sacrament of the
Eucharist, where we all receive his Body and really become his Body.
Thus is brought about the spousal mystery that all become one body and
one spirit in Christ. So it is that the reality goes far beyond any
sociological image, expressing its real, profound essence, that is, the
oneness of all the baptized in Christ, considered by the Apostle "one"
in Christ, conformed to the Sacrament of his Body.

In saying this, Paul shows that he knows well and makes us all
understand that the Church is not his and is not ours: the Church is
the Body of Christ, it is a "Church of God", "God's field, God's
building... God's temple" (1 Cor 3: 9, 16). This latter designation is
particularly interesting because it attributes to a fabric of
interpersonal relations a term that commonly served to mean a physical
place, considered sacred. The relationship between church and temple
therefore comes to assume two complementary dimensions: on the one hand
the characteristic of separateness and purity that the sacred building
deserved is applied to the ecclesial community, but on the other, the
concept of a material space is also overcome, to transfer this quality
to the reality of a living community of faith. If previously temples
had been considered places of God's presence, it was now known and seen
that God does not dwell in buildings made of stone but that the place
of God's presence in the world is the living community of believers.

The description "People of God" would deserve a separate commentary. In
Paul it is applied mainly to the People of the Old Testament and then
to the Gentiles who were "the non-people" but also became People of God
thanks to their insertion in Christ through the word and sacrament.

And finally, one last nuance. In his Letter to Timothy Paul describes
the Church as the "household of God" (1 Tm 3: 15); and this is a truly
original definition because it refers to the Church as a community
structure in which warm, family-type interpersonal relations are lived.
The Apostle helps us to understand ever more deeply the mystery of the
Church in her different dimensions as an assembly of God in the world.
This is the greatness of the Church and the greatness of our call; we
are a temple of God in the world, a place in which God truly dwells,
and at the same time we are a community, a family of God who is love.
As a family and home of God, we must practise God's love in the world
and thus, with the power that comes from faith, be a place and a sign
of his presence. Let us pray the Lord to grant us to be increasingly
his Church, his Body, the place where his love is present in this world
of ours and in our history.

