____________________

[8]Pope John Paul II - Letter on the 750th Anniversary of the Feast of Corpus
Christi, 28 May 1996

[9]Pope Saint John Paul II To [10]Bishop Albert Houssiau of [11]Liege,
[12]Belgium

1. In [13]1246, Robert of Thourotte, your distant predecessor in the
see of [14]Liege, instituted in his Diocese the Eucharistic feast now
known as Corpus Christi, at the request of Juliana of Cornillon, who
had already composed an office for Corpus Christi, Eve of Saint Martin
and other women of [15]Liege.

A few years later in [16]1264, [17]Pope [18]Urban IV made this feast of
the Body of Christ a holy day of obligation for the universal Church,
thereby expressing the importance of venerating the Eucharistic Body of
our Savior. On the occasion of the 750th anniversary of the institution
of this feast, as I join all the pilgrims who will be participating in
the jubilee ceremonies and the faithful all over the world who
ceaselessly pray before the Blessed Sacrament, I raise a fervent prayer
of thanksgiving to the Lord.

2. Jesus is no longer present to men in the same way that he was on the
roads of Palestine. After the Resurrection, he appeared in his glorious
body to the women and to his disciples. Then he took the Apostles and
"led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands he blessed
them... he parted from them... and was carried up into heaven" (Luke
24:50-51). But in ascending to the Father, Christ did not distance
himself from men. He dwells forever in the midst of his brethren and,
just as he promised, he accompanies them and guides them with his
Spirit. Henceforth, his presence is of another kind. Indeed, "at the
Last Supper, after celebrating the Passover with his disciples and when
he was about to pass from this world to his Father, Christ instituted
this sacrament as the perpetual memorial of his Passion..., the
greatest of all his miracles, and he left this sacrament to those whom
his absence filled with grief, as an incomparable consolation" (Saint
Thomas Aquinas, Office of Corpus Christi, ST 4). Every time we
celebrate the Eucharist in the Church, we recall the death of the
Savior, we proclaim his Resurrection as we await his return. Thus no
sacrament is greater or more precious than that of the Eucharist; and
when we receive Communion, we are incorporated into Christ. Our life is
transformed and taken up by the Lord.

3. Outside the Eucharistic celebration, the Church is careful to
venerate the Blessed Sacrament, which must be reserved... as the
spiritual center of the religious and parish community" (Paul VI,
Mysterium fidei, n. 68). Contemplation prolongs Communion and enables
one to meet Christ, true God and true man, in a lasting way, to let
oneself be seen by him and to experience his presence. When we
contemplate him present in the Blessed Sacrament of the altar, Christ
draws near to us and becomes more intimate to us than we are to
ourselves. He grants us a share in his divine life in a transforming
union and, in the Spirit, he gives us access to the Father, as he
himself said to Philip: "He who has seen me has seen the Father" (John.
14:9). Contemplation, which is also a Communion of desire, intimately
associates us with Christ, and in a very special way associates those
who are prevented from receiving it.

Remaining in silence before the Blessed Sacrament, it is Christ totally
and really present whom we discover, whom we adore and with whom we are
in contact. However, it is not through the senses that we perceive him
and are close to him. Under the appearances of bread and wine, it is
faith and love which lead us to recognize the Lord, he who fully
communicates to us "the blessings of the Redemption which he
accomplished, he, the Master, the Good Shepherd, the Mediator most
pleasing to the Father" (Leo XIII, Mirae caritatis). As the Livre de la
foi of the [19]Belgian Bishops recalls, prayer of adoration in the
presence of the Blessed Sacrament unites the faithful "with the paschal
mystery; it enables them to share in Christ's sacrifice, of which the
Eucharist is the `permanent sacrament'".

4. In honoring the Blessed Sacrament, we also offer a profound
thanksgiving to the Father, for in his Son he visited us and redeemed
his people. Through the sacrifice of the Cross Jesus gave his life to
the world and made us his adoptive children, in his image, establishing
a particularly intimate relationship that enables us to call God by the
beautiful name of Father. As Scripture reminds us, Jesus spent nights
in prayer, especially at the moments when he had to make important
decisions. In his prayer, by an act of filial trust and in imitation of
his Lord and Master, the Christian opens his heart and his hands to
receive God's gift and to thank him for his freely offered blessings.

5. It is invaluable to converse with Christ and, leaning against Jesus'
breast like his beloved disciple, we can feel the infinite love of his
Heart. We learn to know more deeply the One who gave himself totally,
in the different mysteries of his divine and human life, so that we may
become disciples and in turn enter into this great act of giving, for
the glory of God and the salvation of the world. "Following Christ is
not an outward imitation, since it touches man at the very depths of
his being" (Veritatis splendor, n. 21). We are called to learn from
him, to let the Spirit act within us and to fulfill the mission
entrusted to us. In particular, Christ's love spurs us to work
constantly for the unity of his Church, to proclaim the Gospel to the
ends of the earth, and to serve men; "we who are many are one body, for
we all partake of one bread" (1 Cor. 10:17): such is the Good News
which gladdens man's heart and shows him that he is called to take part
in the blessed life with God. The Eucharistic mystery is the source,
the center and the summit of the Church's spiritual and charitable
activity (cf. Presbyterorum ordinis, n. 6).

Closeness to Christ in silence and contemplation does not distance us
from our contemporaries but, on the contrary, makes us attentive and
open to human joy and distress and broadens our heart on a global
scale. It unites us with our brothers and sisters in humanity and
particularly with children, who are the Lord's dearly beloved. Through
adoration, the Christian mysteriously contributes to the radical
transformation of the world and to the sowing of the Gospel. Anyone who
prays to the Savior draws the whole world with him and raises it to
God. Those who stand before the Lord are therefore fulfilling an
eminent service. They are presenting to Christ all those who do not
know him or are far from him: they keep watch in his presence on their
behalf.

6. On the occasion of this jubilee, I encourage priests to revive the
memory of their priestly ordination, by which Christ called them to
take part in a particular way in his one priesthood, especially in the
celebration of the Eucharistic sacrifice and in building up his
Mystical Body which is the Church. May they remember the words spoken
by the Bishop at their ordination liturgy: "Know what you are doing,
and imitate the mystery you celebrate: model your life on the mystery
of the Lord's Cross"! In drawing from the source of the sacred
mysteries by faithful and regular periods of contemplation, they will
derive spiritual fruit for their personal life and their ministry, and,
in turn, they will be able to make the Christian people entrusted to
their care capable of understanding the greatness "of their own
particular sharing in the priesthood of Christ" (Letter to Priests for
Holy Thursday 1996, n. 2; L'Osservatore Romano English edition, 27
March 1996, p. 3).

7. "When the faithful adore Christ present in the sacrament, they
should remember that his presence derives from the sacrifice and is
directed towards both sacramental and spiritual communion" (Sacred
Congregation of Rites, Instruction on the Worship of the Eucharistic
Mystery, n. 50). I therefore encourage Christians regularly to visit
Christ present in the Blessed Sacrament of the altar, for we are all
called to abide in the presence of God, thanks to him who is with us
until the end of time. In contemplation, Christians will perceive ever
more profoundly that the paschal mystery is at the heart of all
Christian life. This practice leads them to join more intensely in the
paschal mystery and to make the Eucharistic sacrifice, the perfect
gift, the center of their life in accordance with their specific
vocation, for it "confers an incomparable dignity upon the Christian
people" (Paul VI, Mysterium fidei, n. 67); in fact, during the
Eucharist, we are welcomed by Christ, we receive his forgiveness, we
are nourished by his word and his bread, we are then sent out on
mission in the world; thus each one is called to witness to what he has
received and to do the same for his brethren. The faithful strengthen
their hope by discovering that with Christ suffering and distress can
be transfigured, for with him we have already returned from death to
life. As a result, when they offer the Lord of history their own life,
their work and all creation, their days are illumined by him.

8. I urge priests, religious and lay people to continue and redouble
their efforts to teach the younger generations the meaning and value of
Eucharistic adoration and devotion. How will young people be able to
know the Lord if they are not introduced to the mystery of his
presence? Like the young Samuel, by learning the words of the prayer of
the heart, they will be closer to the Lord, who will accompany them in
their spiritual and human growth, and in the missionary witness which
they must give throughout their life. The Eucharistic mystery is in
fact the "summit of evangelization" (Lumen gentium, n. 28), for it is
the most eminent testimony to Christ's Resurrection. All interior life
needs silence and intimacy with Christ in order to develop. This
gradual familiarity with the Lord will enable certain young people to
be involved in serving as acolytes and to taking a more active part in
Mass; for young boys, to be near the altar is also a privileged
opportunity to hear Christ's call to follow him more radically in the
priestly ministry.

9. As I commend you to the intercession of the Mother of God, Saint
Juliana, and also Saint Lambert and Saint Hubert, zealous evangelizers
of your country, and all the saints of your land, I cordially grant my
Apostolic Blessing to you, to all the members of the diocesan community
and to the faithful who during the year will take part in the various
events of the jubilee.

- [20]Pope [21]John Paul II

