____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 13 October 2010 - Blessed Angela of
Foligno

[10]17th century print of Blessed Angela of Foligno; artist unknown;
swiped from Wikimedia Commons Today I would like to speak to you about
Blessed Angela of Foligno, a great medieval mystic who lived in the
13th century. People are usually fascinated by the consummate
experience of union with God that she reached, but perhaps they give
too little consideration to her first steps, her conversion and the
long journey that led from her starting point, the "great fear of
hell", to her goal, total union with the Trinity. The first part of
Angela's life was certainly not that of a fervent disciple of the Lord.
She was born into a well-off family in about 1248. Her father died and
she was brought up in a somewhat superficial manner by her mother. She
was introduced at a rather young age into the worldly circles of the
town of Foligno, where she met a man whom she married at the age of 20
and to whom she bore children. Her life was so carefree that she was
even contemptuous of the so-called "penitents", who abounded in that
period; they were people who, in order to follow Christ, sold their
possessions and lived in prayer, fasting, in service to the Church and
in charity.

Certain events, such as the violent earthquake in 1279, a hurricane,
the endless war against Perugia and its harsh consequences, affected
the life of Angela who little by little became aware of her sins, until
she took a decisive step. In 1285 she called upon Saint Francis, who
appeared to her in a vision and asked his advice on making a good
general Confession. She then went to Confession with a Friar in San
Feliciano. Three years later, on her path of conversion she reached
another turning point: she was released from any emotional ties. In the
space of a few months, her mother's death was followed by the death of
her husband and those of all her children. She therefore sold her
possessions and in 1291 enrolled in the Third Order of Saint Francis.
She died in Foligno on 4 January 1309.

The Book of Visions and Instructions of Blessed Angela of Foligno, in
which is gathered the documentation on our Blessed, tells the story of
this conversion and points out the necessary means: penance, humility
and tribulation; and it recounts the steps, Angela's successive
experiences which began in 1285. Remembering them after she had
experienced them, Angela then endeavoured to recount them through her
Friar confessor, who faithfully transcribed them, seeking later to sort
them into stages which he called "steps or mutations" but without
managing to put them entirely in order (cf. Il Libro della beata Angela
da Foligno, Cinisello Balsamo 1990, p. 51). This was because for
Blessed Angela the experience of union meant the total involvement of
both the spiritual and physical senses and she was left with only a
"shadow" in her mind, as it were, of what she had "understood" during
her ecstasies. "I truly heard these words", she confessed after a
mystical ecstasy, but it is in no way possible for me to know or tell
of what I saw and understood, or of what he [God] showed me, although I
would willingly reveal what I understood with the words that I heard,
but it was an absolutely ineffable abyss". Angela of Foligno presented
her mystical "life", without elaborating on it herself because these
were divine illuminations that were communicated suddenly and
unexpectedly to her soul. Her Friar confessor too had difficulty in
reporting these events, "partly because of her great and wonderful
reserve concerning the divine gifts" (ibid., p. 194). In addition to
Angela's difficulty in expressing her mystical experience was the
difficulty her listeners found in understanding her. It was a situation
which showed clearly that the one true Teacher, Jesus, dwells in the
heart of every believer and wants to take total possession of it. So it
was with Angela, who wrote to a spiritual son: "My son, if you were to
see my heart you would be absolutely obliged to do everything God
wants, because my heart is God's heart and God's heart is mine". Here
Saint Paul's words ring out: "It is no longer I who live, but Christ
who lives in me" (Gal 2: 20).

Let us then consider only a few "steps" of our Blessed's rich spiritual
journey. The first, in fact, is an introduction: "It was the knowledge
of sin", as she explained, "after which my soul was deeply afraid of
damnation; in this stage I shed bitter tears" (Il Libro della beata
Angela da Foligno, p. 39). This "dread" of hell corresponds to the type
of faith that Angela had at the time of her "conversion"; it was a
faith still poor in charity, that is, in love of God. Repentance, the
fear of hell and penance unfolded to Angela the prospect of the
sorrowful "Way of the Cross", which from the eighth to the 15th stages
was to lead her to the "way of love". Her Friar confessor recounted:
"The faithful woman then told me: I have had this divine revelation:
"after the things you have written, write that anyone who wishes to
preserve grace must not lift the eyes of his soul from the Cross,
either in the joy or in the sadness that I grant or permit him'"
(ibid., p. 143). However, in this phase Angela "did not yet feel love".
She said: "The soul feels shame and bitterness and does not yet feel
love but suffering" (ibid., p. 39), and is unrequited.

Angela felt she should give something to God in reparation for her
sins, but slowly came to realize that she had nothing to give him,
indeed, that she "was nothing" before him. She understood that it would
not be her will to give her God's love, for her will could give only
her own "nothingness", her "non-love". As she was to say: only "true
and pure love, that comes from God, is in the soul and ensures that one
recognizes one's own shortcomings and the divine goodness.... Such love
brings the soul to Christ and it understands with certainty that in him
no deception can be found or can exist. No particle of worldly love can
be mingled with this love" (ibid., p. 124-125). This meant opening
herself solely and totally to God's love whose greatest expression is
in Christ: "O my God" she prayed, "make me worthy of knowing the
loftiest mystery that your most ardent and ineffable love brought about
for our sake, together with the love of the Trinity, in other words the
loftiest mystery of your most holy Incarnation.... O incomprehensible
love! There is no greater love than this love that brought my God to
become man in order to make me God" (ibid., p. 295). However, Angela's
heart always bore the wounds of sin; even after a good Confession she
would find herself forgiven and yet still stricken by sin, free and yet
conditioned by the past, absolved but in need of penance. And the
thought of hell accompanied her too, for the greater the progress the
soul made on the way of Christian perfection, the more convinced it is
not only of being "unworthy" but also deserving of hell.

And so it was that on this mystical journey Angela understood the
central reality in a profound way: what would save her from her
"unworthiness" and from "deserving hell" would not be her "union with
God" or her possession of the "truth" but Jesus Crucified, "his
crucifixion for me", his love. In the eighth step, she said, "However,
I did not yet understand whether my liberation from sins and from hell
and conversion to penance was far greater, or his crucifixion for me"
(ibid., n. 41). This was the precarious balance between love and
suffering, that she felt throughout her arduous journey towards
perfection. For this very reason she preferred to contemplate Christ
Crucified, because in this vision she saw the perfect balance brought
about. On the Cross was the man-God, in a supreme act of suffering
which was a supreme act of love. In the third Instruction the Blessed
insisted on this contemplation and declared: "The more perfectly and
purely we see, the more perfectly and purely we love.... Therefore the
more we see the God and man, Jesus Christ, the more we are transformed
in him through love.... What I said of love... I also say of suffering:
the more the soul contemplates the ineffable suffering of the God and
man Jesus Christ the more sorrowful it becomes and is transformed
through suffering" (ibid., p. 190-191). Thus, unifying herself with and
transforming herself into the love and suffering of Christ Crucified,
she was identifying herself with him. Angela's conversion, which began
from that Confession in 1285, was to reach maturity only when God's
forgiveness appeared to her soul as the freely given gift of the love
of the Father, the source of love: "No one can make excuses", she said,
"because anyone can love God and he does not ask the soul for more than
to love him, because he loves the soul and it is his love" (ibid., p.
76).

On Angela's spiritual journey the transition from conversion to
mystical experience, from what can be expressed to the inexpressible,
took place through the Crucified One. He is the "God-man of the
Passion", who became her "teacher of perfection". The whole of her
mystical experience, therefore, consisted in striving for a perfect
"likeness" with him, through ever deeper and ever more radical
purifications and transformations. Angela threw her whole self, body
and soul, into this stupendous undertaking, never sparing herself of
penance and suffering, from beginning to end, desiring to die with all
the sorrows suffered by the God-man crucified in order to be totally
transformed in him. "O children of God", she recommended, "transform
yourselves totally in the man-God who so loved you that he chose to die
for you a most ignominious and all together unutterably painful death,
and in the most painful and bitterest way. And this was solely for love
of you, O man!" (ibid., p. 247). This identification also meant
experiencing what Jesus himself experienced: poverty, contempt and
sorrow, because, as she declared, "through temporal poverty the soul
will find eternal riches; through contempt and shame it will obtain
supreme honour and very great glory; through a little penance, made
with pain and sorrow, it will possess with infinite sweetness and
consolation the Supreme Good, Eternal God" (ibid., p. 293).

From conversion to mystic union with Christ Crucified, to the
inexpressible. A very lofty journey, whose secret is constant prayer.
"The more you pray", she said, "the more illumined you will be and the
more profoundly and intensely you will see the supreme Good, the
supremely good Being; the more profoundly and intensely you see him,
the more you will love him; the more you love him the more he will
delight you; and the more he delights you, the better you will
understand him and you will become capable of understanding him. You
will then reach the fullness of light, for you will understand that you
cannot understand" (ibid., p. 184).

Dear brothers and sisters, Blessed Angela's life began with a worldly
existence, rather remote from God. Yet her meeting with the figure of
Saint Francis and, finally, her meeting with Christ Crucified
reawakened her soul to the presence of God, for the reason that with
God alone life becomes true life, because, in sorrow for sin, it
becomes love and joy. And this is how Blessed Angela speaks to us.
Today we all risk living as though God did not exist; he seems so
distant from daily life. However, God has thousands of ways of his own
for each one, to make himself present in the soul, to show that he
exists and knows and loves me. And Blessed Angela wishes to make us
attentive to these signs with which the Lord touches our soul,
attentive to God's presence, so as to learn the way with God and
towards God, in communion with Christ Crucified. Let us pray the Lord
that he make us attentive to the signs of his presence and that he
teach us truly to live. Thank you.

