____________________

[8]The Art Of Spiritual Direction, by Pope John XXIII, 9 September 1962

1. Beloved Sons. This meeting comes just before
the week of spiritual exercises with which We want to prepare for the
opening of the Ecumenical Council. And so you can imagine what is in
Our thoughts as We greet you who have been chosen for one of the
loftiest and most vital services in the Church.

As you may know, We Ourself carried out this kind of ministry in the
seminary of Bergamo at the end of the First World War. That invaluable
priestly experience makes it easier for Us to understand what you feel
within your souls, and makes Our conversation with you a little more
intimate and to the point.

In The Depths Of Consciences

First of all, We want to thank you, beloved sons, for the unseen yet
valuable work that you are performing in an area of such promise for
the apostolate. The dioceses are counting on you. The future of the
Church, it might be said, rests greatly in your hands. It is true that
the training of seminarians requires harmonious cooperation and effort
on the part of all the faculty members of the seminary, under the wise
and kind direction of the rector. But the most important role is yours,
for your action is carried on in the inner depths of consciences, where
deep convictions take root and where the real transformation of the
young man called to the priesthood takes place. The breath of the
Spirit of the Lord initiates and sets a crown on this [transformation].
But in the ordinary course of events, it will be hard for the young man
to know how to follow His inspirations without the expert guidance of
the spiritual director.

We can imagine your daily sacrifice, your anxieties, your silent
sufferings. And God knows how many prayers, what great efforts, and at
times what anguish you are offering each day for the graces of light
and of perseverance for your spiritual children. In expressing Our
gratitude to you, We feel that Our sentiments are those of Jesus
Himself, who, in entrusting to you His most precious treasures, has
called you to collaborate with Him in this sublime work of His grace.

A Difficult And Delicate Mission

We would also like to express Our pleasure and satisfaction with your
congress, which promises wonderful results.

The Art Of Arts

The training of young people - it can bear repeating - is a mission
that is anything but easy. It is rightly called the art of arts. And
this is more true when dealing with young people who are turning with
an open and generous mind toward the priesthood. The man who is
training seminarians realizes that his own personal preparation for
this most lofty ministry must continue throughout the length of his
service. He must study the psychology of students for the priesthood;
he must live with his eyes open to the world around him; he must learn
from life. But he must learn from books too: from study, from the
experiences of his confreres and from the progress made in the
pedagogical sciences, and especially from those texts and authors
recommended by the Congregation of Seminaries.

We cannot hide the fact that mistakes have been committed - and are
still being committed - in the educational field, with the ready excuse
that the only requirements for the recognition and proper development
of vocations are common sense, a clinical eye, and, above all,
experience. It gives Us the greatest of pain to say this. More
enlightened spiritual direction would have spared the Church various
priests who are not altogether equal to the loftiness of their office,
at the same time that it would have brought her a greater number of
holy priests.

Contemporary Difficulties

Besides, you know well that every age presents its own special
difficulties to be met in the training of young people. In your case,
you cannot forget that the seminarians belong to a generation that has
been through the tragedy of two gigantic wars, and that they come from
a world that is changing and developing with surprising swiftness. As a
result, you may well feel at times a little perplexed in the face of
certain expressions of an immature personality, in the face of
aspirations and needs and demands that seem far removed from the
mentality current only twenty years ago.

At times this may make you think that the traditional training has seen
its day, and that new ways have to be tried out.

In this regard, We would like to openly express Our thoughts to you.

While it will not help you in training seminarians to adhere rigidly to
plans and methods which are no longer useful, nevertheless you must be
firmly convinced that the basic principles, without which the whole
edifice would crumble and fall into ruins, retain their full force. You
must also avoid carefully the danger of allowing marginal reforms, no
matter how important and at times opportune they may be, to distract
attention from the central problem in all seminary training.

The main object toward which you must direct your efforts is the
creation in the young men of a complete and well-rounded idea of the
priesthood based on the Gospel model, and an acute and vital awareness
of the duty of tending toward holiness.

Unchanging Validity Of Basic Principles

The problem of personal sanctification was the point of honor and of
joy of your youthful years and of Ours, beloved sons. Those called to
the priesthood in this second half of the twentieth century can have
nothing more at heart than this, both prior to ordination and during
their growth in the priesthood; they must be firmly convinced of the
emptiness of any apostolic effort that is not informed by a soul in the
state of grace and tending toward sanctity.

A Need For Mortification

You must also take care that these young men begin to know and
understand the world in which they are called to live and to work, and
you must teach them to sanctify anything good and healthy and holy that
progress may offer. But this does not mean accepting compromises with
the spirit of the world, nor, even less, devaluing the importance of
mortification and of self-denial. An ill-conceived up-to-date approach
concerned only with making seminary life more pleasant, or appeasing
nature too much, would create a personality that would be the very
opposite to that of Jesus the Priest and Victim. On the contrary, a
modern measuring up to the demands of the times will have to be
achieved through a more profound assimilation of the personality of
Jesus and of Jesus crucified. Seminarians must be made to love the
self-denial of the Cross, so that they may learn to love the conditions
of poverty in which the clergy often must live, and learn to face with
courage the renunciations and the tiring labors of the apostolate.

Firm Discipline: Cheerful Devotion To Sacrifice

You sometimes hear people talk of self-formation, of self-mastery. Of
course, no man is well trained if he does not know how to be a rule
unto himself. Educators are correct in being concerned with granting
the youngster a useful and progressive exercise of freedom that will
prepare him to govern himself by himself in definite circumstances and
better prepare him for the life of the ministry. But this should not be
separated from a firm discipline. The young man will never learn to
exercise self-mastery, if he has not learned to observe with love a
strong rule that gives him practice in mortification and in the mastery
of his will. Otherwise, in the full exercise of the ministry, he will
not be ready for full and cheerful obedience to his bishop; and he may
be tempted to attitudes of independence that may not sound like open
rebellion, but that will find expression nevertheless in a personal
course of action not in keeping with the plan for pastoral action being
promoted and proposed by his superior.

Example - A Most Persuasive Language

Finally, we will never be able to stress enough the importance of
example. And this is what you give, beloved sons; this is what older
priests give; oh, if only we could say that this is what all priests
give! This is the eloquent language, which is most persuasive for young
people. And, while it is drawing down an abundance of the Lord's
fruitful graces, the students will be learning from it almost
spontaneously the things often so hard to explain in words.

Lofty Zeal For Executing Council Decisions

Precisely because of his frequent and intimate contacts with
seminarians, the figure of the spiritual director is one of those
carved into memory, constituting - if they are truly edifying - one of
the most effective supports for perseverance in the future. How many
times a surprising renaissance of Christian life in a diocese will find
its real explanation in the silent work of a holy spiritual director,
who has known how to train generations of holy priests through his
teachings and his example.

As We draw to a close Our carefully considered words on these grave and
lofty matters concerning the training of seminarians - to whose good
will, with heavenly grace and with the application of conciliar
legislation, will be entrusted the restoration of fervor in the Church
throughout the Catholic world - We would like to pay tribute, on this
very solemn occasion, to the sacred memory of those priests who are now
at rest in the eternal light and peace of the Lord, to whose ministry,
as confessors and spiritual guides, you and We entrusted the depths of
our consciences at various periods in our lives. They are more than
worthy of our devoted commemoration.

Chosen souls that have entered eternity, and are enjoying its highest
end or are in the course of reaching it - in any case, holy and blessed
souls, every one of them - they are sharers, according to the teaching
of the Catholic faith, in the affairs of the Church militant, and offer
it aid, especially in its more solemn moments, like that of the
Ecumenical Council. And so, may the grace of the Lord that made them
deserving of honor for their sanctification of the clergy on earth in
the past, obtain a breadth and sweep of fervor for the new generation
that the Council intends to consecrate to the triumph of the Kingdom of
Christ the Lord: "in sanctitate et justitia coram ipso, omnibus diebus
nostris."

A Shining Example: Vincenzo Pallotti

Beloved sons! The office of spiritual director is beset with
difficulties and responsibilities. It is concerned with forming souls
in the image of Jesus the priest. It is a divine work, not a human one.
But, far from discouraging you, this serves as the basis for your
confidence. It gives you one reason more for abandoning yourselves to
the almighty mercy of the divine Artisan who wants to make use of you.

In the midst of the delight born of the new fervor accompanying the
celebration of the Council, a deep pleasure and satisfaction for Us is
the hope that, along with the honors of the altar being prepared for a
number of venerable servants of God and Blessed from the Church's
universal constellation of holiness, there will come the canonization
of Blessed Vincenzo Pallotti. A most edifying priest, he was able to
combine the spiritual direction of the young seminarians of the
Pontifical Roman Seminary and of the students of the Urban College of
Propaganda with the foundation of the Pious Society of the Catholic
Apostolate. It was this that gave the first impulse in Rome to that
appropriately-named, Catholic Action which we now admire, as, in its
flourishing state, it is applied to the great and true tasks of
spreading the Gospel in modern society.

Spiritual Director And Apostle

All of the activity of this outstanding priest was directed toward the
sanctification of the clergy and, as he left in writing, to the defense
and conservation of the faith, and to the spread of charity among
Catholics. His intention was that through the spread of faith and
charity in the whole world, there would soon be but one flock and one
shepherd.

He was the apostle of a many-faceted liturgical celebration that
remains an outstanding reminder of his far-sighted apostolic devotion -
We mean the Octave of the Epiphany that is celebrated in the church of
Sant' Andrea della Valle, as a powerful reminder of the development of
a missionary consciousness in the Christian world and as an invocation
of the unity of the Church among all the peoples of the earth.

A Great Work

Beloved sons. Here you have it: verba et exempla, to carry on, under
the guidance and inspiration of divine grace, the opus magnum of
modelling the hearts of future priests on the Heart of Christ.

With a serene trust that Jesus, the high priest, will make these words
of Ours fruitful, We impart Our Apostolic Blessing to you and to all
the seminarians entrusted to your care, as a pledge of heavenly
blessings.

