____________________

[8]Pope John Paul I - First Message to College of Cardinals and to the World

1. Having been called by a mysterious yet loving
Father to this awesome responsibility of the papacy, we extend to you
our greetings.

At the same time we greet everyone in the world, all who hear us.
Following the teachings of the Gospel, we would wish to think of you as
friends, as brothers and sisters. To all of you, I wish good health,
peace, mercy and love:

"May the grace of Our Lord, Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the
fellowship of the Holy Spirit, be with you all."

We are still overwhelmed at the thought of this tremendous ministry for
which we have been chosen: As Peter, we seem to have stepped out on
dangerous waters. Battered by a strong wind, we turn toward Christ
crying: "Lord, save me" (Mt. 14:30). Again we hear his voice
encouraging and, at the same time, lovingly reminding us: "Why do you
doubt, oh you of little faith."

If human forces alone cannot be adequate to the task before us, the
help of almighty God who guides his church throughout the centuries in
the midst of great conflicts and opposition will certainly not desert
us, this humble and present-day servant of the "servants of God."

Placing our hand in that of Christ, leaning on him, we have now been
lifted up to steer that ship which is the church; it is safe and
secure, though in the midst of storms, because the comforting, dominant
presence of the Son of God is with it.

According to the words of Saint Augustine, who takes up an image dear
to the ancient fathers, the ship of the church must not fear because it
is guided by Christ and by his vicar: "Although the ship is tossed
about, it is still a ship. It alone carries the disciples and receives
Christ. Yes, it is tossed on the sea but without it, one would
immediately perish" (Sermon 75, 3; P1. 38, 475). Only in the church is
salvation: "Without it one perishes."

We shall proceed then with this faith. God's assistance will not be
wanting to us, just as he has promised: "I am with you always even to
the end of the world" (Mt. 28:20).

The common response and willing cooperation of all of you will make the
weight of our daily burden lighter. We bind you to us in this awesome
task, realizing the uniqueness of the Catholic Church.

Its tremendous spiritual power is the guarantee of peace and order. As
such it is present in the world, as such it is recognized in the world.
The echo of its daily life gives witness that, despite all obstacles,
it lives in the heart of men, even those who do not share its truth or
accept its message.

As the Second Vatican Council (to whose teachings we wish to commit our
total ministry, as [10]priest, as teacher, as pastor) has said:
"Destined to extend to all regions of the earth, the church enters into
human history, though it transcends at once all time and all racial
boundaries. Advancing through trials and tribulations, the church is
strengthened by God's grace, promised to her by the Lord so that she
may not waver from perfect fidelity, but remain the worthy bride of the
Lord and not cease to renew herself under the action of the Holy Spirit
until, through the cross, she may attain to that light which knows no
setting" (Lumen Gentium, 9).

According to the plan of God, who "has called together all those who
look in faith toward Jesus, author of salvation and principle of unity
and peace," the church has been willed by him "so that it may be for
each and for all the visible sacrament of this saving unity." (Ibid.)

In that light, we place ourselves interiorly, turning all of our
physical and spiritual strength toward the service of the universal
mission of the church, that is to say, at the service of the world. In
other words, we will be at the service of truth, of justice, of peace,
of harmony, of collaboration within nations as well as rapport among
peoples.

We call especially on the children of the church to better under stand
their responsibility: "You are the salt of the earth, you are the light
of the world" (Mt. 5:13). Overcoming internal tension, which can arise
here and there, overcoming the temptation of identifying ourselves with
the ways of the world or the appeal of easily won applause, united in
the unique bond of love which forms the inner life of the church just
as with its external order, the faithful must be ready to give witness
of their own faith to the world: "Always be prepared to give a reason
for the hope that is in you" (1 Pt. 3:15).

The church, in this common effort to be responsible and so respond to
the pressing problems of the day, is called to give to the world that
"strengthening of the Spirit" which is so needed and which alone can
assure salvation.

The world awaits this today: It knows well that the sublime perfection
which it has reached by research and technology - in which it is just
to recognize the fulfillment of the first command of God: "Fill the
earth and make it subject to man" (Gn. 1:28) - has reached a height
beyond which dizziness occurs. It is the temptation of substituting for
God one's own decisions, decisions that would prescind from moral law.
The danger for modern man is that he would reduce the earth to a
desert, the person to an automaton, brotherly love to a planned
collectivization, often introducing death where God wishes life.

The church, admiring yet lovingly outstretched toward human
achievements, intends rather to safeguard the world, that thirsts for a
life of love, from dangers that would attack it. The Gospel calls all
of its children to place their full strength, indeed their life, at the
service of their brothers in the name of the charity of Christ:
"Greater love than this no man has than that he would lay down his life
for his friends" (in. 15:13).

In this solemn moment, we intend to consecrate all that we are and all
that we can achieve for this supreme goal. We will do so until our last
breath, aware of the task insistently entrusted to us by Christ:
"Confirm your brothers" (Lk. 22:32).

We are helped, given strength in our arduous task, by the most sweet
memory of our predecessors, whose lovable sweetness and intrepid
strength will be an example for us in the papal program.

We recall in particular the great lessons of pastoral guidance left by
the most recent Popes, Pius Xl, Pius XII, John XXIII. With wisdom,
dedication, goodness and love of the church and the world, they have
left an indelible mark or our time, a time that is both troubled and
magnificent.

Most of all the pontifical pastoral plan of Paul VI, our immediate
predecessor, has left a strong impression on our heart and in our
memory. His sudden death was crushing to the entire world. In the
manner of his prophetic style, which marked his unforgettable
pontificate, his death placed in clear light the extraordinary stature
of a great yet humble man. He cast an extraordinary light upon the
church even in the midst of controversy and hostility of these last 15
years, he under took immense, untiring labors, without rest, in the
realization of the council and in seeking world peace, the tranquility
of order.

Our program will be to continue his; and his in turn was in the wake of
that drawn from the great heart of John XXIII.
  * We wish to continue to carry forth the heritage of the Second
    Vatican Council. Its wise norms should be followed out and
    perfected. We must be wary of that effort that is generous perhaps
    but unwarranted. It would not achieve the content and meaning of
    the council. On the other hand, we must avoid an approach that is
    hesitant and fearful - and thus would not realize the magnificent
    impulse of renewal and of life.
  * We wish to preserve intact the great discipline of the church in
    the life of [11]priests and of the faithful. It is a rich treasure
    in history. Throughout the ages it has presented examples of
    holiness and heroism, both in the exercise of the evangelical
    virtues and in service to the poor, the humble, the defenseless. To
    achieve that, we place a priority on the revision of the two codes
    of canon law - that of the Oriental tradition and that of the Latin
    tradition - to secure to the interior sap of the holy freedom of
    the children of God the solidity and firmness of juridical
    structures.
  * We wish to remind the entire church that its first duty is that of
    evangelization. Our predecessor, Paul VI, presented the directions
    for this in his memorable document: Animated by faith, nourished by
    the word of God, and strengthened by the heavenly food of the
    Eucharist, the church must study every way, seek every means "in
    season and out of season" (2 Tm. 4:2), to spread the word, to
    proclaim the message, to announce that salvation which creates in
    the soul a restlessness to pursue truth and at the same time offers
    strength from above. If all the sons and daughters of the church
    would know how to be tireless missionaries of the Gospel, a new
    flowering of holiness and renewal would spring up in this world
    that thirsts for love and for truth.
  * We wish to continue the ecumenical thrust, which we consider a
    final directive from our immediate predecessors. We watch with an
    un changing faith, with a dauntless hope and with endless love for
    the realization of that great command of Christ: "That they might
    all be one" (Jn. 17:21). His heart anxiously beat for this on the
    eve of his sacrifice at Calvary. The mutual relationships among the
    churches of the various denominations have made constant and
    extraordinary advances as anyone can see; yet division remains a
    cause for concern, and indeed a contradiction and scandal in the
    eyes of non-Christians and non-believers. We intend to dedicate our
    prayerful attention to every thing that would favor union. We will
    do so without diluting doctrine but, at the same time, without
    hesitation.
  * We wish to pursue with patience but firmness that serene and
    constructive dialogue that Paul VI had at the base of his plan and
    program for pastoral action. The principal theme for this was set
    forth in his great encyclical Ecclesiam Suam. It called for a
    mutual knowledge, man to man, also with those who do not share our
    faith. We must always be ready to give witness of the faith that is
    ours and of the mission that Christ has given to us, "that the
    world might believe" (Jn. 17:21).
  * We wish finally to express our support for all the laudable, worthy
    initiatives that can safeguard and increase peace in our troubled
    world. We call upon all good men, all who are just, honest, true of
    heart. We ask them to help build up a dam within their nations
    against blind violence which can only destroy and sow seeds of ruin
    and sorrow. We ask them too in international life to bring men to
    mutual understanding, to an association of efforts that would
    further social progress, overcome hunger of the body and ignorance
    of the mind, and advance those who are less endowed with goods of
    this earth, yet rich in energy and desire.

Brothers and dearest sons and daughters, in this awesome moment for us,
yet a moment enriched by God's promise, we extend our greeting to all
of our sons and daughters: We wish we could see all of them face to
face, embrace them, give them courage and confidence, while asking
their understanding and prayers for us.

To all then, our greeting:
  * To all [12]cardinals of the sacred college, with whom we have
    shared this decisive hour. We depend upon them now, as we will in
    the future. We are grateful to them for their wise counsel. We
    appreciate the strong support that they will continue to offer to
    us, as an extension of their consent which, through God's will, has
    brought us to the summit of the apostolic office;
  * To all the bishops of the church of God, "who represent their own
    church, whereas all, together with the Pope, represent the entire
    church in a bond of peace, love and unity'" (Lumen Gentium, 23),
    and whose collegiality we strongly value. We value their efforts in
    the guidance of the universal church both through the synodal
    structure and through the curial structure in which they share by
    right according to the norms established;
  * To all of our co-workers called to a strict response to our will
    and thus to an honored activity which brings holiness of life,
    called to a spirit of obedience, to the works of the apostolate and
    to a most exemplary love of the church. We love each of them and we
    encourage them to stay close to us as they were to our predecessors
    in proven faithfulness. We are certain to be able to reply on their
    highly esteemed labors, which will be for us a great joy;
  * We salute the [13]priests and faithful of the Diocese of Rome, to
    whom we are bound by our succession to the Chair of Peter and to
    the unique and singular responsibility of this Roman chair, "which
    presides over universal love."
  * We salute in a special way the members of the dioceses of Venice
    and Belluno, those who are remembered as most beloved sons and
    daughters, and those of whom we think now with a sincere concern,
    conscious of their magnificent work for the church and of their
    common commitment to the cause of the Gospel.
  * And we embrace all [14]priests - especially parish [15]priests and
    those dedicated to the direction of souls, often in difficult
    conditions or genuine poverty, yet sustained by the grace of their
    vocation and by their heroic following of Christ, "the pastor of
    our souls" (1 Pt. 2:25).
  * We salute religious men and women, those in both contemplative and
    active life, who continue to make present in the world a hymn of
    total commitment to the gospel ideal; and we ask them to continue
    to "see well to it that the church truly shows forth Christ through
    them with ever-increasing clarity to believers and unbelievers
    alike" (Lumen Gentium, 46).
  * We salute the entire missionary church, and we extend to all men
    and women, who in their outposts of evangelization dedicate them
    selves to the care of their brothers, our encouragement and our
    most loving recognition.

They should know that, among all who are dear to us, they are the
dearest: They are never forgotten in our prayers and thoughts, because
they have a privileged place in our heart.
  * To the associations of Catholic Action, as to the movements of
    various names which contribute with new energy to the renewal of
    society and the "consecration of the world" as a leaven in the mass
    (cf. Mt. 13:33) - to them go all support and encouragement, because
    we are convinced that their work, carried out in collaboration with
    the hierarchy, is indispensable for the church today.
  * We salute young people, the hope of tomorrow - a better, a
    healthier, a more constructive tomorrow - that they might know how
    to distinguish good from bad and, with the fresh energy that they
    possess, bring about the vitality of the church and the development
    of the world.
  * We greet the families, who are the "domestic sanctuary of the
    church" (Apostolicam Actuositatem, 11), and indeed a true, actual
    "domestic church" (Lumen Gentium) in which religious vocations can
    flourish and holy decisions be made. It is there that one is
    prepared for the world of tomorrow. It is there that one can raise
    defenses against those destructive ideologies of hedonism which
    stamp out life and in stead form a vibrant source of generosity, of
    balance, of dedication to the common good.
  * We extend a particular greeting to all who are now suffering - to
    the sick, to prisoners, to exiles, to the persecuted; to those who
    are unemployed, or who have bad fortune in life; to all upon whom
    restraints are placed in their practice of the Catholic faith which
    they cannot freely profess except at the cost of the basic human
    rights - of free men and of willing, loyal citizens. In a special
    way our thoughts turn to the tortured land of [16]Lebanon, to the
    situation in the homeland of Jesus, to the area of Sahel, to India,
    a land that is so tried, indeed, to all those sons, daughters,
    brothers and sisters who undergo privations in their social and
    political life or as a result of natural disasters.

My brothers and sisters - all people of the world!

We are all struggling to raise the world to a condition of greater
justice, more stable peace, more sincere cooperation. We invite all of
you and encourage you, from the humblest who are the underpinning of
nations to heads of state responsible for each nation - we encourage
you to build up an efficacious and responsible structure for a new
order, one more just and honest.

A dawn of hope spreads over the earth, although it is sometimes touched
by sinister merchants of hatred, bloodshed and war with a darkness
which sometimes threatens to obscure the dawn. This humble vicar of
Christ, who begins in fear yet trust in his mission, places himself at
the disposal of the entire church and all civil society. We make no
distinction as to race or ideology but seek to secure for the world the
dawn of a more serene and joyful day. Only Christ could cause this dawn
of a light which will never set, because he is the "sun of justice"
(cf. Mal. 3:20). He will indeed oversee the work of all. He will not
fail us.

We ask all our sons and daughters for the help of their prayers, for we
are counting on them; and we open ourselves with great trust to the
assistance of the Lord, who, having called us to be his representative
on earth, will not leave us without his all-powerful grace. [17]Mary
most holy, Queen of the Apostles, will be the shining star of our
pontificate. Peter, the foundation of the church will support us
through his intercession and with his example of unconquerable faith
and human generosity. [18]Saint [19]Paul will guide us in our apostolic
efforts directed to all the people of the earth. Our holy patrons will
assist us.

In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, we
impart to the world our first, most loving apostolic benediction.

