____________________

[9]Pope Francis - Homily at Saint John Lateran, 7 April 2013

[10]Pope Francis Dear Brothers and Sisters!

It is with joy that I am celebrating the Eucharist for the first time
in this Lateran Basilica, the Cathedral of the Bishop of Rome. I greet
all of you with great affection: the Cardinal Vicar, the auxiliary
bishops, the diocesan presbyterate, the deacons, the men and women
religious, and all the lay faithful. Together let us walk in the light
of the risen Lord.

1. Today we are celebrating the Second Sunday of Easter, also known as
"Divine Mercy Sunday". What a beautiful truth of faith this is for our
lives: the mercy of God! God's love for us is so great, so deep; it is
an unfailing love, one which always takes us by the hand and supports
us, lifts us up and leads us on.

2. In today's Gospel, the Apostle Thomas personally experiences this
mercy of God, which has a concrete face, the face of Jesus, the risen
Jesus. Thomas does not believe it when the other Apostles tell him: "We
have seen the Lord". It isn't enough for him that Jesus had foretold
it, promised it: "On the third day I will rise". He wants to see, he
wants to put his hand in the place of the nails and in Jesus' side. And
how does Jesus react? With patience: Jesus does not abandon Thomas in
his stubborn unbelief; he gives him a week's time, he does not close
the door, he waits. And Thomas acknowledges his own poverty, his little
faith. "My Lord and my God!": with this simple yet faith-filled
invocation, he responds to Jesus' patience. He lets himself be
enveloped by divine mercy; he sees it before his eyes, in the wounds of
Christ's hands and feet and in his open side, and he discovers trust:
he is a new man, no longer an unbeliever, but a believer.

Let us also remember Peter: three times he denied Jesus, precisely when
he should have been closest to him; and when he hits bottom he meets
the gaze of Jesus who patiently, wordlessly, says to him: "Peter, don't
be afraid of your weakness, trust in me". Peter understands, he feels
the loving gaze of Jesus, and he weeps. How beautiful is this gaze of
Jesus - how much tenderness is there! Brothers and sisters, let us
never lose trust in the patience and mercy of God!

Let us think too of the two disciples on the way to Emmaus: their sad
faces, their barren journey, their despair. But Jesus does not abandon
them: he walks beside them, and not only that! Patiently he explains
the Scriptures which spoke of him, and he stays to share a meal with
them. This is God's way of doing things: he is not impatient like us,
who often want everything all at once, even in our dealings with other
people. God is patient with us because he loves us, and those who love
are able to understand, to hope, to inspire confidence; they do not
give up, they do not burn bridges, they are able to forgive. Let us
remember this in our lives as Christians: God always waits for us, even
when we have left him behind! He is never far from us, and if we return
to him, he is ready to embrace us.

I am always struck when I reread the parable of the merciful Father; it
impresses me because it always gives me great hope. Think of that
younger son who was in the Father's house, who was loved; and yet he
wants his part of the inheritance; he goes off, spends everything, hits
rock bottom, where he could not be more distant from the Father, yet
when he is at his lowest, he misses the warmth of the Father's house
and he goes back. And the Father? Had he forgotten the son? No, never.
He is there, he sees the son from afar, he was waiting for him every
hour of every day, the son was always in his father's heart, even
though he had left him, even though he had squandered his whole
inheritance, his freedom. The Father, with patience, love, hope and
mercy, had never for a second stopped thinking about him, and as soon
as he sees him still far off, he runs out to meet him and embraces him
with tenderness, the tenderness of God, without a word of reproach: he
is back! God is always waiting for us, he never grows tired. Jesus
shows us this merciful patience of God so that we can regain
confidence, hope - always! Romano Guardini said that God responds to
our weakness by his patience, and this is the reason for our
confidence, our hope (cf. Glaubenserkenntnis, Würzburg, 1949, p. 28).

3. I would like to emphasize one other thing: God's patience has to
call forth in us the courage to return to him, however many mistakes
and sins there may be in our life. Jesus tells Thomas to put his hand
in the wounds of his hands and his feet, and in his side. We too can
enter into the wounds of Jesus, we can actually touch him. This happens
every time that we receive the sacraments with faith. Saint Bernard, in
a fine homily, says: "Through the wounds of Jesus I can suck honey from
the rock and oil from the flinty rock (cf. Deut 32:13), I can taste and
see the goodness of the Lord" (On the Song of Songs, 61:4). It is
there, in the wounds of Jesus, that we are truly secure; there we
encounter the boundless love of his heart. Thomas understood this.
Saint Bernard goes on to ask: What can I count on? On my own merits?
No, "My merit is God's mercy. I am by no means lacking merits as long
as he is rich in mercy. If the mercies of the Lord are manifold, I too
will abound in merits" (ibid., 5). This is important: the courage to
trust in Jesus' mercy, to trust in his patience, to seek refuge always
in the wounds of his love. Saint Bernard even states: "So what if my
conscience gnaws at me for my many sins? `Where sin has abounded, there
grace has abounded all the more' (Rom 5:20)" (ibid.). Someone may
think: my sin is so great, I am as far from God as the younger son in
the parable, my unbelief is like that of Thomas; I don't have the
courage to go back, to believe that God can welcome me and that he is
waiting for me, of all people. But God is indeed waiting for you; he
asks of you only the courage to go to him. How many times in my
pastoral ministry have I heard it said: "Father, I have many sins"; and
I have always pleaded: "Don't be afraid, go to him, he is waiting for
you, he will take care of everything". We hear many offers from the
world around us; but let us take up God's offer instead: his is a
caress of love. For God, we are not numbers, we are important, indeed
we are the most important thing to him; even if we are sinners, we are
what is closest to his heart.

Adam, after his sin, experiences shame, he feels naked, he senses the
weight of what he has done; and yet God does not abandon him: if that
moment of sin marks the beginning of his exile from God, there is
already a promise of return, a possibility of return. God immediately
asks: "Adam, where are you?" He seeks him out. Jesus took on our
nakedness, he took upon himself the shame of Adam, the nakedness of his
sin, in order to wash away our sin: by his wounds we have been healed.
Remember what Saint Paul says: "What shall I boast of, if not my
weakness, my poverty? Precisely in feeling my sinfulness, in looking at
my sins, I can see and encounter God's mercy, his love, and go to him
to receive forgiveness.

In my own life, I have so often seen God's merciful countenance, his
patience; I have also seen so many people find the courage to enter the
wounds of Jesus by saying to him: Lord, I am here, accept my poverty,
hide my sin in your wounds, wash it away with your blood. And I have
always seen that God did just this - he accepted them, consoled them,
cleansed them, loved them.

Dear brothers and sisters, let us be enveloped by the mercy of God; let
us trust in his patience, which always gives us more time. Let us find
the courage to return to his house, to dwell in his loving wounds,
allowing ourselves be loved by him and to encounter his mercy in the
sacraments. We will feel his tenderness, we will feel his embrace, and
we too will become more capable of mercy, patience, forgiveness and
love.

