____________________

[8]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 14 January 2009 - Saint Paul: The
Theological vision of the Letters to the Colossians and Ephesians

1. Saint Paul the Apostle

In Saint Paul's correspondence there are two
Letters to the Colossians and to the Ephesians that to a certain extent
can be considered twins. In fact, they both contain expressions that
are found in them alone, and it has been calculated that more than a
third of the words in the Letter to the Colossians are also found in
the Letter to the Ephesians. For example, while in Colossians we read
literally the invitation: "admonish one another. Sing gratefully to God
from your hearts in psalms, hymns and spiritual songs" (Colossians 3:
16), in his Letter to the Ephesians Saint Paul likewise recommends
"addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, sing
praise to the Lord with all your heart" (Ephesians 5: 19). We could
meditate upon these words: the heart must sing with psalms and hymns,
and the voice in the same way, in order to enter the tradition of
prayer of the whole of the Church of the Old and New Testaments. Thus
we learn to be with ourselves and one another and with God. In
addition, the "domestic code" that is absent in the other Pauline
Letters is found in these two in other words, a series of
recommendations addressed to husbands and wives, to parents and
children, to masters and slaves (cf. Colossians 3: 18-4: 1 and
Ephesoams 5:22-6: 9 respectively).

It is even more important to notice that only in these two Letters is
the title "head" given to Jesus Christ. And this title is used on two
levels. In the first sense, Christ is understood as head of the Church
(cf. Colossians 2: 18-19 and Ephesians 4:15-16). This means two things:
first of all that he is the governor, the leader, the person in charge
who guides the Christian community as its leader and Lord (cf. Col 1:
18: "He is the head of the body, the Church"). The other meaning is
then that, as head, he innervates and vivifies all the members of the
body that he controls. (In fact, according to Colossians 2: 19, it is
necessary "[to hold] fast to the Head, from whom the whole body, [is]
nourished and knit together"). That is, he is not only one who commands
but also one who is organically connected with us, from whom comes the
power to act in an upright way.

In both cases, the Church is considered subject to Christ, both in
order to follow his supervision the commandments and to accept all of
the vital influences that emanate from him. His commandments are not
only words or orders but a vital energy that comes from him and helps
us.

This idea is developed particularly in Ephesians where, instead of
being traced back to the Spirit (as in 1 Corinthians 12), even the
ministries of the Church are conferred by the Risen Christ. It is he
who established "that some should be apostles, some prophets, some
evangelists, some pastors and teachers" (4: 11). And it is from him
that "the whole body grows, and... joined firmly together by each
supporting ligament, builds itself up in love" (4: 16). Christ, in
fact, fully strives to "present to himself a glorious Church, holy and
immaculate, without stain or wrinkle or anything of that sort" (Eph 5:
27). In saying this he tells us that the power with which he builds the
Church with which he guides the Church, with which he also gives the
Church the right direction is precisely his love.

The first meaning is therefore Christ, Head of the Church; both with
regard to her direction and, above all, with regard to her inspiration
and organic revitalization by virtue of his love. Then, in a second
sense, Christ is not only considered as head of the Church but also as
head of the heavenly powers and of the entire cosmos. Thus, in
Colossians, we read that Christ has "disarmed the principalities and
powers and made a public example of them, triumphing over them in him"
(2: 15). Similarly, in Ephesians we find it written that with his
Resurrection God placed Christ "far above all rule and authority and
power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in
this age but also in that which is to come" (1: 21). With these words
the two Letters bring us a highly positive and fruitful message. It is
this: Christ has no possible rival to fear since he is superior to
every form of power that might presume to humble man. He alone "loved
us and gave himself up for us" (Eph 5: 2). Thus, if we are united with
Christ, we have no enemy or adversity to fear; but this therefore means
that we must continue to cling firmly to him, without loosening our
grip!

For the pagan world that believed in a world filled with spirits for
the most part dangerous and from which it was essential to protect
oneself the proclamation that Christ was the only conqueror and that
those with Christ need fear no one seemed a true liberation. The same
is also true for the paganism of today, since current followers of
similar ideologies see the world as full of dangerous powers. It is
necessary to proclaim to them that Christ is triumphant, so that those
who are with Christ, who stay united to him, have nothing and no one to
fear. I think that this is also important for us, that we must learn to
face all fears because he is above all forms of domination, he is the
true Lord of the world.

Even the entire cosmos is subject to him and converges in him as its
own head. The words in the Letter to the Ephesians that speak of God's
plan "to unite all things in him, things in Heaven and things on earth"
(1: 10) are famous. Likewise, we read in the Letter to the Colossians
that "in him all things were created, in Heaven and on earth, visible
and invisible" (1: 16), and that "making peace by the Blood of his
Cross.... reconcile[d] to himself all things, whether on earth or in
heaven" (1: 20). Therefore there is not, on the one hand, the great
material world and, on the other, this small reality of the history of
our earth, of the world of people: it is all one in Christ. He is the
head of the cosmos; the cosmos too was created by him, it was created
for us to the extent that we are united with him. It is a rational and
personalistic vision of the universe. I would say that it would have
been impossible to conceive of a vision more universalistic than this,
and that it befits the Risen Christ alone. Christ is the Pantokrator to
which all things are subordinate. Our thoughts turn precisely to Christ
the Pantocrator, who fills the vault of the apse in Byzantine churches,
sometimes depicted seated on high, above the whole world, or even on a
rainbow, to show his equality with God himself at whose right hand he
is seated (cf. Eph 1: 20; Col 3: 1) and thus also his incomparable role
as the guide of human destiny.

A vision of this kind can only be conceived by the Church, not in the
sense that she wishes to misappropriate that to which she is not
entitled, but in another double sense: both to the extent that the
Church recognizes that Christ is greater than she is, given that his
lordship extends beyond her confines, and to the extent that the Church
alone not the cosmos is described as the Body of Christ. All of this
means that we must consider earthly realities positively, since Christ
sums them up in himself, and at the same time we must live to the full
our specific ecclesial identity, which is the one most homogeneous to
Christ's own identity.

Then there is also a special concept which is typical of these two
Letters, and it is the concept of "mystery". The "mystery of [God's]
will" is mentioned once (Eph 1: 9) and, other times, as the "mystery of
Christ" (Eph 3: 4; Col 4: 3) or even as "God's mystery, of Christ, in
whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge" (Col 2: 2-3).
This refers to God's inscrutable plan for the destiny of mankind, of
peoples and of the world. With this language the two Epistles tell us
that the fulfilment of this mystery is found in Christ. If we are with
Christ, even if our minds are incapable of grasping everything, we know
that we have penetrated the nucleus of this "mystery" and are on the
way to the truth. It is he in his totality and not only in one aspect
of his Person or at one moment of his existence who bears within him
the fullness of the unfathomable divine plan of salvation. In him what
is called "the manifold wisdom of God" (Eph 3: 10) takes shape, for in
him "the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily" (Col 2: 9). From this
point on, therefore, it is not possible to reflect on and worship God's
will, his sovereign instruction, without comparing ourselves personally
with Christ in Person, in whom that "mystery" is incarnate and may be
tangibly perceived. Thus one arrives at contemplation of the
"unsearchable riches of Christ" (Eph 3: 8) which are beyond any human
understanding. It is not that God did not leave footprints on his
journey, for Christ himself is God's impression, his greatest
footprint; but we realize "what is the breadth and length and height
and depth" of this mystery "which surpasses knowledge" (Ephesians 3:
18-19). Mere intellectual categories prove inadequate here, and,
recognizing that many things are beyond our rational capacities, we
must entrust them to the humble and joyful contemplation not only of
the mind but also of the heart. The Fathers of the Church, moreover,
tell us that love understands better than reason alone.

A last word must be said on the concept, already mentioned above, of
the Church as the spousal partner of Christ. In the Second Letter to
the Corinthians, the Apostle Paul had compared the Christian community
to a bride, writing thus: "I feel a divine jealousy for you", for I
betrothed you to Christ to present you as a pure bride to her one
husband" (11: 2). The Letter to the Ephesians develops this image,
explaining that the Church is not only a betrothed bride, but the real
bride of Christ. He has won her, so to speak, and has done so at the
cost of his life: as the text says, he "gave himself up for her" (Eph
5: 25). What demonstration of love could be greater than this? But in
addition, he was concerned about her beauty: not only the beauty
already acquired through Baptism, but also that beauty "without stain
or wrinkle" that is due to an irreproachable life which must grow in
her moral conduct every day (cf. Eph 5: 26-27). It is a short step from
here to the common experience of Christian marriage; indeed, it is not
even very clear what the initial reference point of the Letter was for
its author: whether it was the Christ-Church relationship, in whose
light the union of the man and woman should be seen, or whether it was
the experiential event of conjugal union, in whose light should be seen
the relationship between Christ and the Church. But both aspects
illuminate each other reciprocally: we learn what marriage is in the
light of the communion of Christ and the Church, we learn how Christ is
united to us in thinking of the mystery of matrimony. In any case, our
Letter presents itself as nearly a middle road between the Prophet
Hosea, who expressed the relationship between God and his people in
terms of the wedding that had already taken place (cf. Hos 2: 4, 16,
20), and the Seer of the Apocalypse, who was to propose the
eschatological encounter between the Church and the Lamb as a joyful
and indefectible wedding (cf. Rv 19: 7-9; 21: 9).

There would be much more to say, but it seems to me that from what has
been expounded it is already possible to realize that these two Letters
form a great catechesis, from which we can learn not only how to be
good Christians but also how to become truly human. If we begin by
understanding that the cosmos is the impression of Christ, we learn our
correct relationship with the cosmos, along with all of the problems of
the preservation of the cosmos. Let us learn to see it with reason, but
with a reason motivated by love, and with the humility and respect that
make it possible to act in the right way. And if we believe that the
Church is the Body of Christ, that Christ gave himself for her, we
learn how to live reciprocal love with Christ, the love that unites us
to God and makes us see in the other the image of Christ, Christ
himself. Let us pray the Lord to help us to meditate well upon Sacred
Scripture, his word, and thus truly learn how to live well.

