____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 17 November 2010 - Saint Juliana of
Cornillon

[10]detail of a statue of Blessed Juliana of Mont Cornillon; by Peter
Paul Metz, 1896; choir stalls, parish of Saint Gordian and Saint
Epimachus, Merazhofen, Leutkirch im Allgäu, Ravensburg, Germany;
photographed in May 2009 by Andreas Praefcke; swiped from Wikimedia
Commons This morning too I would like to introduce a female figure to
you. She is little known but the Church is deeply indebted to her, not
only because of the holiness of her life but also because, with her
great fervour, she contributed to the institution of one of the most
important solemn Liturgies of the year: Corpus Christi.

She is Saint Juliana de Cornillon, also known as Saint Juliana of
Liège. We know several facts about her life, mainly from a Biography
that was probably written by a contemporary cleric; it is a collection
of various testimonies of people who were directly acquainted with the
Saint.

Juliana was born near Liège, Belgium between 1191 and 1192. It is
important to emphasize this place because at that time the Diocese of
Liège was, so to speak, a true "Eucharistic Upper Room". Before
Juliana, eminent theologians had illustrated the supreme value of the
Sacrament of the Eucharist and, again in Liège, there were groups of
women generously dedicated to Eucharistic worship and to fervent
communion. Guided by exemplary priests, they lived together, devoting
themselves to prayer and to charitable works.

Orphaned at the age of five, Juliana, together with her sister Agnes,
was entrusted to the care of the Augustinian nuns at the convent and
leprosarium of Mont-Cornillon.

She was taught mainly by a sister called "Sapienza" [wisdom], who was
in charge of her spiritual development to the time Juliana received the
religious habit and thus became an Augustinian nun.

She became so learned that she could read the words of the Church
Fathers, of Saint Augustine and Saint Bernard in particular, in Latin.
In addition to a keen intelligence, Juliana showed a special propensity
for contemplation from the outset. She had a profound sense of Christ's
presence, which she experienced by living the Sacrament of the
Eucharist especially intensely and by pausing frequently to meditate
upon Jesus' words: "And lo, I am with you always, to the close of the
age" (Mt 28:20).

When Juliana was 16 she had her first vision which recurred
subsequently several times during her Eucharistic adoration. Her vision
presented the moon in its full splendour, crossed diametrically by a
dark stripe. The Lord made her understand the meaning of what had
appeared to her. The moon symbolized the life of the Church on earth,
the opaque line, on the other hand, represented the absence of a
liturgical feast for whose institution Juliana was asked to plead
effectively: namely, a feast in which believers would be able to adore
the Eucharist so as to increase in faith, to advance in the practice of
the virtues and to make reparation for offences to the Most Holy
Sacrament.

Juliana, who in the meantime had become Prioress of the convent, kept
this revelation that had filled her heart with joy a secret for about
20 years. She then confided it to two other fervent adorers of the
Eucharist, Blessed Eva, who lived as a hermit, and Isabella, who had
joined her at the Monastery of Mont-Cornillon. The three women
established a sort of "spiritual alliance" for the purpose of
glorifying the Most Holy Sacrament.

They also chose to involve a highly regarded Priest, John of Lausanne,
who was a canon of the Church of Saint Martin in Liège. They asked him
to consult theologians and clerics on what was important to them. Their
affirmative response was encouraging.

What happened to Juliana of Cornillon occurs frequently in the lives of
Saints. To have confirmation that an inspiration comes from God it is
always necessary to be immersed in prayer to wait patiently, to seek
friendship and exchanges with other good souls and to submit all things
to the judgement of the Pastors of the Church.

It was in fact Bishop Robert Torote, Liège who, after initial
hesitation, accepted the proposal of Juliana and her companions and
first introduced the Solemnity of Corpus Christi in his diocese. Later
other Bishops following his example instituted this Feast in the
territories entrusted to their pastoral care.

However, to increase their faith the Lord often asks Saints to sustain
trials. This also happened to Juliana who had to bear the harsh
opposition of certain members of the clergy and even of the superior on
whom her monastery depended.

Of her own free will, therefore, Juliana left the Convent of
Mont-Cornillon with several companions. For 10 years -- from 1248 to
1258 -- she stayed as a guest at various monasteries of Cistercian
sisters.

She edified all with her humility, she had no words of criticism or
reproach for her adversaries and continued zealously to spread
Eucharistic worship.

She died at Fosses-La-Ville, Belgium, in 1258. In the cell where she
lay the Blessed Sacrament was exposed and, according to her
biographer's account, Juliana died contemplating with a last effusion
to love Jesus in the Eucharist whom she had always loved, honoured and
adored. Jacques Pantaléon of Troyes was also won over to the good cause
of the Feast of Corpus Christi during his ministry as Archdeacon in
Lièges. It was he who, having become Pope with the name of Urban IV in
1264, instituted the Solemnity of Corpus Christi on the Thursday after
Pentecost as a feast of precept for the universal Church.

In the Bull of its institution, entitled Transiturus de hoc mundo, (11
August 1264), Pope Urban even referred discreetly to Juliana's mystical
experiences, corroborating their authenticity. He wrote: "Although the
Eucharist is celebrated solemnly every day, we deem it fitting that at
least once a year it be celebrated with greater honour and a solemn
commemoration.

"Indeed we grasp the other things we commemorate with our spirit and
our mind, but this does not mean that we obtain their real presence. On
the contrary, in this sacramental commemoration of Christ, even though
in a different form, Jesus Christ is present with us in his own
substance. While he was about to ascend into Heaven he said `And lo, I
am with you always, to the close of the age' (Matthew 28:20)".

The Pontiff made a point of setting an example by celebrating the
solemnity of Corpus Christi in Orvieto, the town where he was then
residing. Indeed, he ordered that the famous Corporal with the traces
of the Eucharistic miracle which had occurred in Bolsena the previous
year, 1263, be kept in Orvieto Cathedral -- where it still is today.

While a priest was consecrating the bread and the wine he was overcome
by strong doubts about the Real Presence of the Body and Blood of
Christ in the sacrament of the Eucharist. A few drops of blood began
miraculously to ooze from the consecrated Host, thereby confirming what
our faith professes.

Urban IV asked one of the greatest theologians of history, Saint Thomas
Aquinas -- who at that time was accompanying the Pope and was in
Orvieto -- to compose the texts of the Liturgical Office for this great
feast. They are masterpieces, still in use in the Church today, in
which theology and poetry are fuse. These texts pluck at the
heartstrings in an expression of praise and gratitude to the Most Holy
Sacrament, while the mind, penetrating the mystery with wonder,
recognizes in the Eucharist the Living and Real Presence of Jesus, of
his Sacrifice of love that reconciles us with the Father, and gives us
salvation.

Although after the death of Urban IV the celebration of the Feast of
Corpus Christi was limited to certain regions of France, Germany,
Hungary and Northern Italy, it was another Pontiff, John xxii, who in
1317 re-established it for the universal Church. Since then the Feast
experienced a wonderful development and is still deeply appreciated by
the Christian people.

I would like to affirm with joy that today there is a "Eucharistic
springtime" in the Church: How many people pause in silence before the
Tabernacle to engage in a loving conversation with Jesus! It is
comforting to know that many groups of young people have rediscovered
the beauty of praying in adoration before the Most Blessed Sacrament.

I am thinking, for example, of our Eucharistic adoration in Hyde Park,
London. I pray that this Eucharistic "springtime" may spread
increasingly in every parish and in particular in Belgium, Saint
Juliana's homeland.

Saint John Paul II said in his Encyclical Ecclesia de Eucharistia: "In
many places, adoration of the Blessed Sacrament is also an important
daily practice and becomes an inexhaustible source of holiness. The
devout participation of the faithful in the Eucharistic procession on
the Solemnity of the Body and Blood of Christ is a grace from the Lord
which yearly brings joy to those who take part in it. Other positive
signs of Eucharistic faith and love might also be mentioned" (n. 10).

In remembering Saint Juliana of Cornillon let us also renew our faith
in the Real Presence of Christ in the Eucharist. As we are taught by
the Compendium of the Catechism of the Catholic Church, "Jesus Christ
is present in the Eucharist in a unique and incomparable way. He is
present in a true, real and substantial way, with his Body and his
Blood, with his Soul and his Divinity. In the Eucharist, therefore,
there is present in a sacramental way, that is, under the Eucharistic
Species of bread and wine, Christ whole and entire, God and Man" (n.
282).

Dear friends, fidelity to the encounter with the Christ in the
Eucharist in Holy Mass on Sunday is essential for the journey of faith,
but let us also seek to pay frequent visits to the Lord present in the
Tabernacle! In gazing in adoration at the consecrated Host, we discover
the gift of God's love, we discover Jesus' Passion and Cross and
likewise his Resurrection. It is precisely through our gazing in
adoration that the Lord draws us towards him into his mystery in order
to transform us as he transforms the bread and the wine.

The Saints never failed to find strength, consolation and joy in the
Eucharistic encounter. Let us repeat before the Lord present in the
Most Blessed Sacrament the words of the Eucharistic hymn "Adoro te
devote": [Devoutly I adore Thee]: Make me believe ever more in you,
"Draw me deeply into faith, / Into Your hope, into Your love".

