____________________

[9]Pope Francis - Chrism Mass Homily, 28 March 2013

[10]Pope Francis Dear Brothers and Sisters, This morning I have the joy
of celebrating my first Chrism Mass as the Bishop of Rome. I greet all
of you with affection, especially you, dear priests, who, like myself,
today recall the day of your ordination.

The readings of our Mass speak of God's "anointed ones": the suffering
Servant of Isaiah, King David and Jesus our Lord. All three have this
in common: the anointing that they receive is meant in turn to anoint
God's faithful people, whose servants they are; they are anointed for
the poor, for prisoners, for the oppressed... A fine image of this
"being for" others can be found in the Psalm: "It is like the precious
oil upon the head, running down upon the beard, on the beard of Aaron,
running down upon the collar of his robe" (Ps 133:2). The image of
spreading oil, flowing down from the beard of Aaron upon the collar of
his sacred robe, is an image of the priestly anointing which, through
Christ, the Anointed One, reaches the ends of the earth, represented by
the robe.

The sacred robes of the High Priest are rich in symbolism. One such
symbol is that the names of the children of Israel were engraved on the
onyx stones mounted on the shoulder-pieces of the ephod, the ancestor
of our present-day chasuble: six on the stone of the right
shoulder-piece and six on that of the left (cf. Ex 28:6-14). The names
of the twelve tribes of Israel were also engraved on the breastplate
(cf. Es 28:21). This means that the priest celebrates by carrying on
his shoulders the people entrusted to his care and bearing their names
written in his heart. When we put on our simple chasuble, it might well
make us feel, upon our shoulders and in our hearts, the burdens and the
faces of our faithful people, our saints and martyrs of whom there are
many in these times...

From the beauty of all these liturgical things, which is not so much
about trappings and fine fabrics than about the glory of our God
resplendent in his people, alive and strengthened, we turn to a
consideration of activity, action. The precious oil which anoints the
head of Aaron does more than simply lend fragrance to his person; it
overflows down to "the edges". The Lord will say this clearly: his
anointing is meant for the poor, prisoners and the sick, for those who
are sorrowing and alone. The ointment is not intended just to make us
fragrant, much less to be kept in a jar, for then it would become
rancid ... and the heart bitter.

A good priest can be recognized by the way his people are anointed.
This is a clear test. When our people are anointed with the oil of
gladness, it is obvious: for example, when they leave Mass looking as
if they have heard good news. Our people like to hear the Gospel
preached with "unction", they like it when the Gospel we preach touches
their daily lives, when it runs down like the oil of Aaron to the edges
of reality, when it brings light to moments of extreme darkness, to the
"outskirts" where people of faith are most exposed to the onslaught of
those who want to tear down their faith. People thank us because they
feel that we have prayed over the realities of their everyday lives,
their troubles, their joys, their burdens and their hopes. And when
they feel that the fragrance of the Anointed One, of Christ, has come
to them through us, they feel encouraged to entrust to us everything
they want to bring before the Lord: "Pray for me, Father, because I
have this problem", "Bless me", "Pray for me" - these words are the
sign that the anointing has flowed down to the edges of the robe, for
it has turned into prayer. The prayers of the people of God. When we
have this relationship with God and with his people, and grace passes
through us, then we are priests, mediators between God and men. What I
want to emphasize is that we need constantly to stir up God's grace and
perceive in every request, even those requests that are inconvenient
and at times purely material or downright banal - but only apparently
so - the desire of our people to be anointed with fragrant oil, since
they know that we have it. To perceive and to sense, even as the Lord
sensed the hope-filled anguish of the woman suffering from hemorrhages
when she touched the hem of his garment. At that moment, Jesus,
surrounded by people on every side, embodies all the beauty of Aaron
vested in priestly raiment, with the oil running down upon his robes.
It is a hidden beauty, one which shines forth only for those
faith-filled eyes of the woman troubled with an issue of blood. But not
even the disciples - future priests - see or understand: on the
"existential outskirts", they see only what is on the surface: the
crowd pressing in on Jesus from all sides (cf. Lk 8:42). The Lord, on
the other hand, feels the power of the divine anointing which runs down
to the edge of his cloak.

We need to "go out", then, in order to experience our own anointing,
its power and its redemptive efficacy: to the "outskirts" where there
is suffering, bloodshed, blindness that longs for sight, and prisoners
in thrall to many evil masters. It is not in soul-searching or constant
introspection that we encounter the Lord: self-help courses can be
useful in life, but to live by going from one course to another, from
one method to another, leads us to become pelagians and to minimize the
power of grace, which comes alive and flourishes to the extent that we,
in faith, go out and give ourselves and the Gospel to others, giving
what little ointment we have to those who have nothing, nothing at all.

A priest who seldom goes out of himself, who anoints little - I won't
say "not at all" because, thank God, our people take our oil from us
anyway - misses out on the best of our people, on what can stir the
depths of his priestly heart. Those who do not go out of themselves,
instead of being mediators, gradually become intermediaries, managers.
We know the difference: the intermediary, the manager, "has already
received his reward", and since he doesn't put his own skin and his own
heart on the line, he never hears a warm, heartfelt word of thanks.
This is precisely the reason why some priests grow dissatisfied, become
sad priests, lose heart and become in some sense collectors of antiques
or novelties - instead of being shepherds living with "the smell of the
sheep", shepherds in the midst of their flock, fishers of men. True
enough, the so-called crisis of priestly identity threatens us all and
adds to the broader cultural crisis; but if we can resist its
onslaught, we will be able to put out in the name of the Lord and cast
our nets. It is not a bad thing that reality itself forces us to "put
out into the deep", where what we are by grace is clearly seen as pure
grace, out into the deep of the contemporary world, where the only
thing that counts is "unction" - not function - and the nets which
overflow with fish are those cast solely in the name of the One in whom
we have put our trust: Jesus.

Dear lay faithful, be close to your priests with affection and with
your prayers, that they may always be shepherds according to God's
heart.

Dear priests, may God the Father renew in us the Spirit of holiness
with whom we have been anointed. May he renew his Spirit in our hearts,
that this anointing may spread to everyone, even to those "outskirts"
where our faithful people most look for it and most appreciate it. May
our people sense that we are the Lord's disciples; may they feel that
their names are written upon our priestly vestments and that we seek no
other identity; and may they receive through our words and deeds the
oil of gladness which Jesus, the Anointed One, came to bring us. Amen.

