____________________

[8]Pope Gregory II Replies to Questions Put by Boniface, 22 November 726

[9]Pope Gregory II Gregory, the servant of the servants of God, to
Boniface, our most holy brother and colleague in the episcopate.

Your devout messenger Denual has brought us the welcome news that you
are well and that, by the help of God, you are making progress in the
work for which you were sent. He also delivered to us letters from you
reporting that the field of the Lord which had long lain fallow and was
overgrown with the weeds of pagan customs has now been ploughed up and
sown with the truth of the Gospel, producing an abundant harvest of
souls.

in the same report you included a number of questions concerning the
faith and teaching of the Holy Roman and Apostolic Church. This is a
commendable practice, for here Saint Peter the Apostle held his see and
the episcopate had its beginning. And since you seek our advice on
matters dealing with ecclesiastical discipline, we will state with all
the authority of apostolic tradition what you must hold, though we
speak not from our own insufficiency but relying on the grace of Him
who opens the mouths of the dumb and makes eloquent the tongues of
babes.

Your first question is: Within what degrees can marriage be solemnized?
Our answer is that if the parties know themselves to be related by
blood they should not marry; but since moderation weighs more with
these savage people than strict legal duties, they should be allowed to
marry after the fourth degree of consanguinity.

As to what a man shall do if his wife is unable through illness to
allow him his marital rights, it would be better if he remained apart
and practised continence. But since this is practicable only in the
case of men of high ideals, the best course if he is unable to be
continent would be for him to marry. Nevertheless, he should continue
to support the woman who is sick, unless she has contracted the disease
through her own fault.

As regards a priest or bishop who has been accused by the people, if
the evidence for the charge against him is not substantiated by
reliable witnesses he should protest his innocence on oath before God,
from whom nothing is concealed, and retain the rank which is his due.
For once a man has been ordained or consecrated he cannot be ordained
or consecrated anew.

In the sacred ceremony of the Mass that rite must be observed which our
Lord transmitted to His Disciples, for he took the chalice and gave it
to them, saying: "This is the chalice of the New Testament in my blood:
do this as often as you shall drink it." Therefore it is not fitting
that two or three chalices should be placed on the altar during the
celebration of Mass.

As to foods offered in sacrifice to idols, you ask whether a believer
is permitted to eat them or not after he has first made a sign of the
cross over them. A sufficient answer to this question is provided in
the words of Saint Paul when he said: " If any man says to you, This
has been offered in sacrifice, eat not for the sake of the man who
mentioned it and for conscience sake."

You ask further: If a father or mother gives a child during its early
years to a monastery to be brought up in monastic discipline, is it
lawful for that child, after reaching the age of puberty, to leave the
cloister and enter into matrimony? This we strictly forbid, for it is
an impious thing to allow children who have been offered to God by
their parents to follow their baser instincts for pleasure.

You mention also that some have been baptized by adulterous and
unworthy priests without being questioned on their belief in the
articles of the Creed. In such cases you must hold fast to the ancient
custom of the Church, because whoever is baptized in the name of
Father, Son and Holy Ghost cannot be baptized again. For he has
received this grace not in the name of the minister but in the name of
the Trinity. Hold fast the teaching of the Apostles, " One Lord, one
faith, one baptism ". We require you to impart spiritual instruction to
such people with particular earnestness.

As regards small children who have been separated from their parents
and do not know whether they have been baptized or not, reason demands
that you should baptize them, unless there is evidence to the contrary.

Lepers who belong to the Christian faith should be allowed to partake
of the body and blood of the Lord, but they may not attend sacred
functions with people in good health. In the case of a contagious
disease or plague attacking a church or monastery you ask whether those
who have not been infected may escape danger by flight. We declare this
to be utterly foolish; no man can escape the hand of God.

At the end of your letter you state that some priests and bishops are
so vicious that their fives are a continual reproach to the priesthood
and you enquire whether it would be lawful to eat and speak with them
provided they are not heretics. We answer that you are to admonish and
correct them with our apostolic authority and so bring them back to the
purity of ecclesiastical discipline. If they obey, they will save their
souls, and you, on your side, will attain your reward. Do not refuse to
eat and speak with them at the same table. It often happens that where
correction fails to bring men to an acknowledgment of the truth, the
constant and gentle persuasion of their table companions leads them
back to the paths of goodness. You should follow this same rule in
dealing with the nobles who are of assistance to you.

This, my dear brother, is all that need be said with the authority of
the Apostolic See. For the rest, we call upon the mercy of (34 which
has sent you, under our apostolic authority, to shed the light of truth
on those regions of darkness, to crown your work with success so that
you may receive the reward of your labours and the forgiveness of our
sins.

May God keep you from all harm, most reverend brother.

Given on the tenth of the kalends of December in the tenth year of the
reign of our august emperor Leo, in the seventh of his son Constantine
the Great, the tenth indiction.

