____________________

[8]Pope John Paul II - The Curé of Ars, 16 March 1986

[9]Pope Saint John Paul II

1. Dear Brother Priests,

Holy Thursday, the Feast of Priests

Here we are again, about to celebrate Holy Thursday, the day on
which Christ Jesus instituted the Eucharist and at the same time our
ministerial Priesthood. "Having loved his own who were in the world, he
loved them to the end."(1) As the Good Shepherd, he was about to give
up his life for his sheep,(2) to save man, to reconcile himself with
his Father and bring him into a new life. And already at the Last
Supper he offered the Apostles as food his own Body given up for them,
and his Blood shed for them.

Each year this day is an important one for all Christians: like the
first disciples, they come to receive the Body and Blood of Christ in
the evening liturgy that renews the Last Supper. They receive from the
Saviour his testament of fraternal love which must inspire their whole
lives, and they begin to watch with him, in order to be united with him
in his Passion. You yourselves gather them together and guide their
prayer.

But this day is especially important for us, dear brother priests. It
is the feast of priests. It is the birthday of our Priesthood, which is
a sharing in the one Priesthood of Christ the Mediator. On this day the
priests of the whole world are invited to concelebrate the Eucharist
with their bishops and with them to renew the promises of their
priestly commitment to the service of Christ and his Church.

As you know, I feel particularly close to each one of you on this
occasion. And, the same as every year, as a sign of our sacramental
union in the same Priesthood, and impelled by my affectionate esteem
for you and by my duty to confirm all my brothers in their service of
the Lord, I wish to send you this letter to help you stir up the
wonderful gift that was conferred on you through the laying on of
hands.(3) This ministerial Priesthood which is our lot is also our
vocation and our grace. It marks our whole life with the seal of the
most necessary and most demanding of services, the salvation of souls.
We are led to it by a host of predecessors.

The matchless example of the Curé of Ars

2. One of those predecessors remains particularly present in the memory
of the Church, and he will be especially commemorated this year, on the
second centenary of his birth: *Saint John Marie Vianney, the Curé of
Ars*.

Together we wish to thank Christ, the Prince of Pastors, for this
extraordinary model of priestly life and service which the saintly Curé
of Ars offers to the whole Church, and above all to us priests.

How many of us prepared ourselves for the Priesthood, or today exercise
the difficult task of caring for souls, having before our eyes the
figure of Saint John Mary Vianney! His example cannot be forgotten.
More than ever we need his witness, his intercession, in order to face
the situations of our times when, in spite of a certain number of
hopeful signs, evangelization is being contradicted by a growing
secularization, when spiritual discipline is being neglected, when many
are losing sight of the Kingdom of God, when often, even in the
pastoral ministry, there is a too exclusive concern for the social
aspect, for temporal aims. In the last century the Curé of Ars had to
face difficulties which were perhaps of a different kind but which were
no less serious. By his life and work he represented, for the society
of his time, a great evangelical challenge that bore astonishing fruits
of conversion. Let us not doubt that he still presents to us today that
*great evangelical challenge*.

I therefore invite you now to meditate on our Priesthood in the
presence of this matchless pastor who illustrates both the fullest
realization of the priestly ministry and the holiness of the minister.

As you know, [10]John Mary Baptist Vianney died at Ars on [11]4 August
[12]1859, after some forty years of exhausting dedication. He was
seventy-three years of age. When he arrived, Ars was a small and
obscure village in the Diocese of Lyons, now in the Diocese of Belley.
At the end of his life, people came from all over France, and his
reputation for holiness, after he had been called home to God, soon
attracted the attention of the universal Church. Saint Pius X beatified
him in 1905, Pius XI canonized him in 1925, and then in 1929 declared
him Patron Saint of the parish priests of the whole world. On the
centenary of his death, Pope John XXIII wrote the Encyclical "Nostri
Sacerdotii Primitias," to present the Curé of Ars as a model of
priestly life and asceticism, a model of pastoral zeal, and this in the
context of the needs of our time. Here, I would simply like to draw
your attention to certain essential points so as to help us to
rediscover and live our Priesthood better.

THE TRULY EXTRAORDINARY LIFE OF THE CURÉ OF ARS

His tenacious will in preparing for the Priesthood

3. The Curé of Ars is truly a model of strong will for those preparing
for the Priesthood. Many of the trials which followed one after another
could have discouraged him: the effects of the upheaval of the French
Revolution, the lack of opportunities for education in his rural
environment, the reluctance of his father, the need for him to do his
share of work in the fields, the hazards of military service. Above
all, and in spite of his intuitive intelligence and lively sensitivity,
there was his great difficulty in learning and memorizing, and so in
following the theological courses in Latin, all of which resulted in
his dismissal from the seminary in Lyons. However, after the
genuineness of his vocation had finally been acknowledged, at 29 years
of age he was able to be ordained. Through his tenacity in working and
praying, he overcame all obstacles and limitations, just as he did
later in his priestly life, by his perseverance in laboriously
preparing his sermons or spending the evenings reading the works of
theologians and spiritual writers. From his youth he was filled with a
great desire to "win souls for the good of God" by being a priest, and
he was supported by the confidence placed in him by the parish priest
of the neighboring town of Ecully, who never doubted his vocation and
took charge of a good part of his training. What an example of courage
for those who today experience the grace of being called to the
Priesthood!

The depth of his love for Christ and for souls

4. The Curé of Ars is a model of priestly zeal for all pastors. The
secret of his generosity is to be found without doubt in *his love for
God*, lived without limits, in constant response to the love made
manifest *in Christ crucified*. This is where he bases his desire to do
everything to save the souls ransomed by Christ at such a great price,
and to bring them back to the love of God. Let us recall one of those
pithy sayings which he had the knack of uttering: "The priesthood is
the love of the Heart of Jesus."(4) In his sermons and catechesis he
continually returned to that love: "O my God, I prefer to die loving
you than to live a single instant without loving you... I love you, my
divine Saviour, because you were crucified for us... because you have
me crucified for you."(5)

For the sake of Christ, he seeks to conform himself exactly to the
radical demands that Jesus in the Gospels puts before the disciples
whom he sends out: prayer, poverty, humility, self-denial, voluntary
penance. And, like Christ, he has a love for his flock that leads him
to extreme pastoral commitment and self-sacrifice. Rarely has a pastor
been so acutely aware of his responsibilities, so consumed by a desire
to wrest his people from the sins of their lukewarmness. "O my God,
grant me the conversion of my parish: I consent to suffer whatever you
wish, for as long as I live."

Dear brother priests, nourished by the Second Vatican Council which has
felicitously placed the priest's consecration within the framework of
his pastoral mission, let us join Saint John Mary Vianney and seek the
dynamism of our pastoral zeal in the Heart of Jesus, in his love for
souls. If we do not draw from the same source, our ministry risks
bearing little fruit!

The many wonderful fruits of his ministry

5. In the case of the Curé of Ars, the results were indeed wonderful,
somewhat as with Jesus in the Gospel. Through John Mary Vianney, who
consecrates his whole strength and his whole heart to him, Jesus saves
souls. The Saviour entrusts them to him, in abundance.

First, *his parish* - which numbered only 230 people when he arrived -
which will be profoundly changed. One recalls that in that village
there was a great deal of indifference and very little religious
practice among the men. The bishop had warned John Mary Vianney: "There
is not much love of God in that parish, you will put some there." But
quite soon, far beyond his own village, the Curé becomes *the pastor of
a multitude* coming from the entire region, from different parts of
France and from other countries. It is said that 80,000 came in the
year 1858! People sometimes waited for days to see him, to go to
confession to him. What attracted them to him was not merely curiosity
nor even a reputation justified by miracles and extraordinary cures,
which the saint would wish to hide. It was much more the realization of
meeting a saint, amazing for his penance, so close to God in prayer,
remarkable for his peace and humility in the midst of popular acclaim,
and above all so intuitive in responding to the inner disposition of
souls and in freeing them from their burdens, especially in the
confessional. Yes, God chose as a model for pastors one who could have
appeared poor, weak, defenseless and contemptible in the eyes of
men.(6) He graced them with his best gifts as a guide and healer of
souls.

While recognizing the special nature of the grace given to the Curé of
Ars, is there not here a sign of hope for pastors today who are
suffering from a kind of spiritual desert?

THE MAIN ACTS OF THE MINISTRY OF THE CURÉ OF ARS

Different apostolic approaches to what is essential

6. John Mary Vianney dedicated himself essentially to teaching the
faith and to purifying consciences, and these two ministries were
directed towards the Eucharist. Should we not see here, today also, the
three objectives of the priest's pastoral service?

While the purpose is undoubtedly to bring the people of God together
around the Eucharistic mystery by means of catechesis and penance,
other apostolic approaches, varying according to circumstances, are
also necessary. Sometimes it is a simple presence, over the years, with
the silent witness of faith in the midst of non-Christian surroundings;
or being near to people, to families and their concerns; there is a
preliminary evangelization that seeks to awaken to the faith
unbelievers and the lukewarm; there is the witness of charity and
justice shared with Christian lay people, which makes the faith more
credible and puts it into practice. These give rise to a whole series
of undertakings and apostolic works which prepare or continue Christian
formation. The Curé of Ars himself taxed his ingenuity to devise
initiatives adapted to his time and his parishioners. However, all
these priestly activities were centered on the Eucharist, catechesis
and the Sacrament of Reconciliation.

The Sacrament of Reconciliation

7. It is undoubtedly his untiring devotion to the Sacrament of
Reconciliation which revealed the principle charism of the Curé of Ars
and is rightly the reason for his renown. It is good that such an
example should encourage us today to restore to the ministry of
reconciliation all the attention which it deserves and which the Synod
of Bishops of 1983 so justly emphasized.(7) Without the step of
conversion, penance and seeking pardon that the Church's ministers
ought untiringly to encourage and welcome, the much desired renewal
will remain superficial and illusory.

The first care of the Curé of Ars was to teach the faithful to desire
repentance. He stressed the beauty of God's forgiveness. Was not all
his priestly life and all his strength dedicated to the conversion of
sinners? And it was above all in the confessional that God's mercy
manifested itself. So he did not wish to get rid of the penitents who
came from all parts and to whom he often devoted ten hours a day,
sometimes fifteen or more. For him this was undoubtedly the greatest of
his mortifications, a form of martyrdom. In the first place it was a
martyrdom in the physical sense from the heat, the cold or the
suffocating atmosphere. Secondly in the moral sense, for he himself
suffered from the sins confessed and even more the lack of repentance:
"I weep because you do not weep." In the face of these indifferent
people, whom he welcomed as best he could and tried to awaken in them
the love of God, the Lord enabled him to reconcile great sinners who
were repentant and also to guide to perfection souls thirsting for it.
It was here above all that God asked him to share in the Redemption.

For our own part, we have rediscovered, better than during the last
century, the community aspect of penance, preparation for forgiveness
and thanksgiving after forgiveness. But sacramental forgiveness will
always require a personal encounter with the crucified Christ through
the mediation of his minister.(8) Unfortunately it is often the case
that penitents do not fervently hasten to the confessional, as in the
time of the Curé of Ars. Now, just when a great number seem to stay
away from confession completely, for various reasons, it is a sign of
the urgent need to develop a whole pastoral strategy of the Sacrament
of Reconciliation. This will be done by constantly reminding Christians
of the need to have a real relationship with God, to have a sense of
sin when one is closed to God and to others, the need to be converted
and through the Church to receive forgiveness as a free gift of God.
They also need to be reminded of the conditions that enable the
sacrament to be celebrated well, and in this regard to overcome
prejudices, baseless fears and routine.(9) Such a situation at the same
time requires that we ourselves should remain very available for this
ministry of forgiveness, ready to devote to it the necessary time and
care, and I would even say giving it priority over other activities.
The faithful will then realize the value that we attach to it, as did
the Curé of Ars.

Of course, as I wrote in the Post-Synodal Exhortation on Penance,(10)
the ministry of reconciliation undoubtedly remains the most difficult,
the most delicate, the most taxing and the most demanding of all -
especially when priests are in short supply. This ministry also
presupposes on the part of the confessor great human qualities, above
all an intense and sincere spiritual life; it is necessary that the
priest himself should make regular use of this sacrament.

Always be convinced of this, dear brother priests: this ministry of
mercy is one of the most beautiful and most consoling. It enables you
to enlighten consciences, to forgive them and to give them fresh vigor
in the name of the Lord Jesus. It enables you to be for them a
spiritual physician and counsellor; it remains "the irreplaceable
manifestation and the test of the priestly ministry."(11)

The Eucharist: offering the Mass, communion, adoration

8. The two Sacraments of Reconciliation and the Eucharist remain
closely linked. Without a continually renewed conversion and reception
of the sacramental grace of forgiveness, participation in the Eucharist
would not reach its full redemptive efficacy.(12) Just as Christ began
his ministry with the words "Repent and believe in the gospel,"(13) so
the Curé of Ars generally begins each of his days with the ministry of
forgiveness. But he was happy to direct his reconciled penitents to the
*Eucharist*.

The Eucharist was at the very center of his spiritual life and pastoral
work. He said: "All good works put together are not equivalent to the
Sacrifice of the Mass, because they are the works of men and the Holy
Mass is the work of God."(14) It is in the Mass that the sacrifice of
Calvary is made present for the Redemption of the world. Clearly, the
priest must unite the daily gift of himself to the offering of the
Mass: "How well a priest does, therefore, to offer himself to God in
sacrifice every morning!"(15) "Holy Communion and the Holy Sacrifice of
the Mass are the two most efficacious actions for obtaining the
conversion of hearts."(16)

Thus the Mass was for John Mary Vianney the great joy and comfort of
his priestly life. He took great care, despite the crowds of penitents,
to spend more than a quarter of an hour in silent preparation. He
celebrated with recollection, clearly expressing his adoration at the
consecration and communion. He accurately remarked: "The cause of
priestly laxity is not paying attention to the Mass!"(17)

The Curé of Ars was particularly mindful of the permanence of Christ's
real presence in the Eucharist. It was generally before the tabernacle
that he spent long hours in adoration, before daybreak or in the
evening; it was towards the tabernacle that he often turned during his
homilies, saying with emotion: "He is there!" It was also for this
reason that he, so poor in his presbytery, did not hesitate to spend
large sums on embellishing his Church. The appreciable result was that
his parishioners quickly took up the habit of coming to pray before the
Blessed Sacrament, discovering, through the attitude of their pastor,
the grandeur of the mystery of faith.

With such a testimony before our eyes, we think about what the Second
Vatican Council says to us today on the subject of priests: "They
exercise this sacred function of Christ most of all in the Eucharistic
liturgy."(18) And more recently, the Extraordinary Synod in December
1985 recalled: "The liturgy must favor and make shine brightly the
sense of the sacred. It must be imbued with reverence, adoration and
glorification of God...The Eucharist is the source and summit of all
the Christian life."(19)

Dear brother priests, the example of the Curé of Ars invites us to a
serious examination of conscience: what place do we give the Mass in
our daily lives? Is it, as on the day of our Ordination - it was our
first act as priests! - the principle of our apostolic work and
personal sanctification? What care do we take in preparing for it? And
in celebrating it? In praying before the Blessed Sacrament? In
encouraging our faithful people to do the same? In making our Churches
the House of God to which the divine presence attracts the people of
our time who too often have the impression of a world empty of God?

Preaching and catechesis

9. The Curé of Ars was also careful never to neglect in any way the
ministry of the Word, which is absolutely necessary in predisposing
people to faith and conversion. He even said: "Our Lord, who is truth
itself, considers his Word no less important than his Body."(20) We
know how long he spent, especially at the beginning, in laboriously
composing his Sunday sermons. Later on he came to express himself more
spontaneously, always with lively and clear conviction, with images and
comparisons taken from daily life and easily grasped by his flock. His
catechetical instructions to the children also formed an important part
of his ministry, and the adults gladly joined the children so as to
profit from this matchless testimony which flowed from his heart.

He had the courage to denounce evil in all its forms; he did not keep
silent, for it was a question of the eternal salvation of his faithful
people: "If a pastor remains silent when he sees God insulted and souls
going astray, woe to him! If he does not want to be damned, and if
there is some disorder in his parish, he must trample upon human
respect and the fear of being despised or hated." This responsibility
was his anguish as a parish priest. But as a rule, "he preferred to
show the attractive side of virtue rather than the ugliness of vice,"
and if he spoke - sometimes in tears - about sin and the danger for
salvation, he insisted on the tenderness of God who has been offended,
and the happiness of being loved by God, united to God, living in his
presence and for him.

Dear brother priests, you are deeply convinced of the importance of
proclaiming the Gospel, which the Second Vatican Council placed in the
first rank of the functions of a priest.(21) You seek, through
catechesis, through preaching and in other forms which also include the
media, to touch the hearts of our contemporaries, with their hopes and
uncertainties, in order to awaken and foster their faith. Like the Curé
of Ars and in accordance with the exhortation of the Council,(22) take
care to teach the Word of God itself which calls people to conversion
and holiness.

THE IDENTITY OF THE PRIEST

The specific ministry of the priest

10. Saint John Mary Vianney gives an eloquent answer to certain
*questionings of the priest's identity*, which have manifested
themselves in the course of the last twenty years; in fact it seems
that today a more balanced position is being reached.

The priest always, and in an unchangeable way, finds the source of his
identity in Christ the Priest. It is not the world which determines his
status, as though it depended on changing needs or ideas about social
roles. The priest is marked with the seal of the Priesthood of Christ,
in order to share in his function as the one Mediator and Redeemer.

So, because of this fundamental bond, there opens before the priest the
immense field of the service of souls, for their salvation in Christ
and in the Church. This service must be completely inspired by love of
souls in imitation of Christ who gives his life for them. It is God's
wish that all people should be saved, and that none of the little ones
should be lost.(23) "The priest must always be ready to respond to the
needs of souls," said the Curé of Ars.(24) "He is not for himself, he
is for you."(25)

The priest is for the laity: he animates them and supports them in the
exercise of the common priesthood of the baptized - so well illustrated
by the Second Vatican Council - which consists in their making their
lives a spiritual offering, in witnessing to the Christian spirit in
the family, in taking charge of the temporal sphere and sharing in the
evangelization of their brethren. But the service of the priest belongs
to another order. He is ordained to act in the name of Christ the Head,
to bring people into the new life made accessible by Christ, to
dispense to them the mysteries - the Word, forgiveness, the Bread of
Life - to gather them into his body, to help them to form themselves
from within, to live and to act according to the saving plan of God. In
a word, our identity as priests is manifested in the "creative"
exercise of the love for souls communicated by Christ Jesus.

Attempts to make the priest more like the laity are damaging to the
Church. This does not mean in any way that the priest can remain remote
from the human concerns of the laity: he must be very near to them, as
John Mary Vianney was, but as a priest, always in a perspective which
is that of their salvation and of the progress of the Kingdom of God.
He is the witness and the dispenser of a life other than earthly
life.(26) It is essential to the Church that the identity of the priest
be safeguarded, with its vertical dimension. The life and personality
of the Curé of Ars are a particularly enlightening and vigorous
illustration of this.

His intimate configuration to Christ and his solidarity with sinners

11. Saint John Marie Vianney did not content himself with the ritual
carrying out of the activities of his ministry. It was his heart and
his life which he sought to conform to Christ.

*Prayer* was the soul of his life: silent and contemplative prayer,
generally in his church at the foot of the tabernacle. Through Christ,
his soul opened to the three divine Persons, to whom he would entrust
"his poor soul" in his last will and testament. "He kept a constant
union with God in the middle of an extremely busy life." And he did not
neglect the office or the rosary. He turned spontaneously to the
Virgin.

His *poverty* was extraordinary. He literally stripped himself of
everything for the poor. And he shunned honors. *Chastity* shone in his
face. He knew the value of purity in order "to rediscover the source of
love which is God." *Obedience* to Christ consisted, for John Mary
Vianney, in obedience to the Church and especially to the Bishop. This
obedience took the form of accepting the heavy charge of being a parish
priest, which often frightened him.

But the Gospel insists especially on *renouncing self*, on accepting
the Cross. Many were the crosses which presented themselves to the Curé
of Ars in the course of his ministry: calumny on the part of the
people, being misunderstood by an assistant priest or other confrSres,
contradictions, and also a mysterious struggle against the powers of
hell, and sometimes even the temptation to despair in the midst of
spiritual darkness.

Nonetheless he did not content himself with just accepting these trials
without complaining; he went beyond them by *mortification*, imposing
on himself continual fasts and many other rugged practices in order to
"reduce his body to servitude," as Saint Paul says. But what we must
see clearly in this penance, which our age unhappily has little taste
for, are his motives: love of God and the conversion of sinners. Thus
he asks a discouraged fellow priest: "You have prayed..., you have
wept..., but have you fasted, have you kept vigil...?"(27) Here we are
close to the warning Jesus gave to the Apostles: "But this kind is cast
out only by prayer and fasting."(28)

In a word, John Mary Vianney sanctified himself so as to be more able
to sanctify others. Of course, conversion remains the secret of hearts,
which are free in their actions, and the secret of God's grace. By his
ministry, the priest can only enlighten people, guide them in the
internal forum and give them the sacraments. The sacraments are of
course actions of Christ, and their effectiveness is not diminished by
the imperfection or unworthiness of the minister. But the results
depend also on the dispositions of those who receive them, and these
are greatly assisted by the personal holiness of the priest, by his
perceptible witness, as also by the mysterious exchange of merits in
the Communion of Saints. Saint Paul said: "In my flesh I complete what
is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is,
the Church."(29) John Mary Vianney in a sense wished to force God to
grant these graces of conversion, not only by his prayer but by the
sacrifice of his whole life. He wished to love God for those who did
not love him, and even to do the penance which they would not do. He
was truly a pastor completely at one with his sinful people.

Dear brother priests, let us not be afraid of this very personal
commitment - marked by asceticism and inspired by love - which God asks
of us for the proper exercise of our Priesthood. Let us remember the
recent reflections of the Synodal Fathers: "It seems to us that in the
difficulties of today God wishes toteach us more deeply the value,
importance and central place of the Cross of Jesus Christ."(30) In the
priest, Christ relives his Passion, for the sake of souls. Let us give
thanks to God who thus permits us to share in the Redemption, in our
hearts and in our flesh!

For all these reasons, Saint John Mary Vianney never ceases to be a
witness, ever living, ever relevant, to the truth about the priestly
vocation and service. We recall the convincing way in which he spoke of
the greatness of the priest and of the absolute need for him. Those who
are already priests, those who are preparing for the Priesthood and
those who will be called to it must fix their eyes on his example and
follow it. The faithful too will more clearly grasp, thanks to him, the
mystery of the Priesthood of their priests. No, *the figure of the Curé
of Ars does not fade*.

Conclusion: for Holy Thursday

12. Dear Brothers, may these reflections renew your joy at being
priests, your desire to be priests more profoundly! The witness of the
Curé of Ars contains still other treasures to be discovered. We shall
return to these themes at greater length during the pilgrimage which I
shall have the joy of making next October, since the French Bishops
have invited me to Ars in honor of the second centenary of the birth of
John Mary Vianney.

I address this first meditation to you, dear brothers, for the
Solemnity of Holy Thursday. In each of our diocesan communities we are
going to gather together, on this birthday of our Priesthood, to renew
the grace of the Sacrament of Orders, to stir up the love which is the
mark of our vocation.

We hear Christ saying to us as he said to the Apostles: "Greater love
has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends...
No longer do I call you servants..., I have called you friends."(31)

Before him who manifests love in its fullness, we, priests and Bishops,
renew our priestly commitments.

We pray for one another, each for his brother, and all for all.

We ask the eternal Father that the memory of the Curé of Ars may help
to stir up our zeal in his service.

We beseech the Holy Spirit to call to the Church's service many priests
of the calibre and holiness of the Curé of Ars: in our age she has so
great a need of them, and she is no less capable of bringing such
vocations to full flower.

And we entrust our Priesthood to the Virgin Mary, the Mother of
priests, to whom John Mary Vianney ceaselessly had recourse with tender
affection and total confidence. This was for him another reason for
giving thanks: "Jesus Christ," he said, "having given us all that he
could give us, also wishes to make us heirs of what is most precious to
him, his holy Mother."(32)

For my part, I assure you once more of my great affection, and, with
your Bishop, I send you to my Apostolic Blessing

From the Vatican, [13]16 March [14]1986, the Fifth Sunday of Lent, in
the eighth year of my Pontificate. NOTES

Notes
 1. Jn 13:1.
 2. Cf. Jn 10:11.
 3. Cf. 2 Tm 1:6.
 4. Cf. "Jean-Marie Vianney, Curé d'Ars, sa pensee, son coeur presentes
    par l'Abbe Bernard nodet, editions Xavier Mappus, LePuy, 1958, p.
    100; henceforth qouted as: Nodet.
 5. Nodet, p. 44.
 6. Cf. 1 Cor 1:28-29.
 7. Cf. John Paul II, Post-Synodal Apostolic Exhortation "Reconciliatio
    et Paenitentia" (2 December 1984): AAS 77 (1985), pp. 185-275.
 8. Cf. John Paul II, Encyclical Letter "Redemptor Hominis" (4 March
    1979), No. 20: AAS 71 (1979), pp. 313-316.
 9. Cf. John Paul II, Post-Synodal Apostolic Exhortation "Reconciliatio
    et Paenitentia" (2 December 1984): AAS 77 (1985), pp. 250-252.
10. Cf. Ibid., No. 29: AAS 77 (1985), pp 252-256.
11. John Paul II, Letter to Priests for Holy Thursday 1983, No. 3: AAS
    75 (1983), pars I, p. 419.
12. Cf. John Paul II, Encyclical Letter "Redemptor Hominis" (4 March
    1979), No. 20: AAS 71 (1979), pp. 309-313.
13. Mk 1:15.
14. Nodet, p. 108.
15. Nodet, p. 107.
16. Nodet, p. 110.
17. Nodet, p. 108.
18. Second Vatican Council, Dogmatic Constitution on the Church "Lumen
    Gentium," No. 28.
19. II, B, b/1 and C/1; cf. Second Vatican Council, Dogmatic
    Constitution on the Church "Lumen Gentium," No. 11.
20. Nodet, p. 126.
21. Second Vatican Council, Decree on the Ministry and Life of Priests
    "Presbyterorum Ordinis," No. 3.
22. Cf. Ibid.
23. Cf. Matthew 18:14.
24. Nodet, p. 101.
25. Nodet, p. 102.
26. Cf. Second Vatican Council, Decree on the Ministry and Life of
    Priests "Presbyterorum Ordinis," No. 3.
27. Nodet, p. 193.
28. Matthew 17:21.
29. Colossians 1:24.
30. Final Report, D/2.
31. John 15:13-15.
32. Nodet, p. 252.

