____________________

[8]Veterum Sapientia - On the Promotion of the Study of Latin, by Pope John
XXIII, 22 February 1962

1. The wisdom of the ancient world, enshrined in
Greek and Roman literature, and the truly memorable teaching of ancient
peoples, served, surely, to herald the dawn of the Gospel which Gods
Son, "the judge and teacher of grace and truth, the light and guide of
the human race," proclaimed on earth.

Such was the view of the Church Fathers and Doctors. In these
outstanding literary monuments of antiquity, they recognized mans
spiritual preparation for the supernatural riches which Jesus Christ
communicated to mankind "to give history its fulfilment."

Thus the inauguration of Christianity did not mean the obliteration of
mans past achievements. Nothing was lost that was in any way true,
just, noble and beautiful.

Venerable languages

The Church has ever held the literary evidences of this wisdom in the
highest esteem. She values especially the Greek and Latin languages in
which wisdom itself is cloaked, as it were, in a vesture of gold. She
has likewise welcomed the use of other venerable languages, which
flourished in the East. For these too have had no little influence on
the progress of humanity and civilization. By their use in sacred
liturgies and in versions of Holy Scripture, they have remained in
force in certain regions even to the present day, bearing constant
witness to the living voice of antiquity.

A primary place

But amid this variety of languages a primary place must surely be given
to that language which had its origins in Latium, and later proved so
admirable a means for the spreading of Christianity throughout the
West.

And since in Gods special Providence this language united so many
nations together under the authority of the Roman Empire - and that for
so many centuries - it also became the rightful language of the
Apostolic See. Preserved for posterity, it proved to be a bond of unity
for the Christian peoples of Europe.

The nature of Latin

Of its very nature Latin is most suitable for promoting every form of
culture among peoples. It gives rise to no jealousies. It does not
favor any one nation, but presents itself with equal impartiality to
all and is equally acceptable to all.

Nor must we overlook the characteristic nobility of Latin for mal
structure. Its "concise, varied and harmonious style, full of majesty
and dignity" makes for singular clarity and impressiveness of
expression.

Preservation of Latin by the Holy See

For these reasons the Apostolic See has always been at pains to
preserve Latin, deeming it worthy of being used in the exercise of her
teaching authority "as the splendid vesture of her heavenly doctrine
and sacred laws." She further requires her sacred ministers to use it,
for by so doing they are the better able, wherever they may be, to
acquaint themselves with the mind of the Holy See on any matter, and
communicate the more easily with Rome and with one another.

Thus the "knowledge and use of this language," so intimately bound up
with the Church's life, "is important not so much on cultural or
literary grounds, as for religious reasons." These are the words of Our
Predecessor Pius XI, who conducted a scientific inquiry into this whole
subject, and indicated three qualities of the Latin language which
harmonize to a remarkable degree with the Church's nature. "For the
Church, precisely because it embraces all nations and is destined to
endure to the end of time . . of its very nature requires a language
which is universal, immutable, and non vernacular."

Universal

Since "every Church must assemble round the Roman Church," and since
the Supreme Pontiffs have "true episcopal power, ordinary and
immediate, over each and every Church and each and every Pastor, as
well as over the faith-full" of every rite and language, it seems
particularly desirable that the instrument of mutual communication be
uniform and universal, especially between the Apostolic See and the
Churches which use the same Latin rite.

When, therefore, the Roman Pontiffs wish to instruct the Catholic
world, or when the Congregations of the Roman Curia handle matters or
draw up decrees which concern the whole body of the faithful, they
invariably make use of Latin, for this is a maternal voice acceptable
to countless nations.

Immutable

Furthermore, the Church's language must be not only universal but also
immutable. Modern languages are liable to change, and no single one of
them is superior to the others in authority. Thus if the truths of the
Catholic Church were entrusted to an unspecified number of them, the
meaning of these truths, varied as they are, would not be manifested to
everyone with sufficient clarity and precision. There would, moreover,
be no language which could serve as a common and constant norm by which
to gauge the exact meaning of other renderings.

But Latin is indeed such a language. It is set and unchanging. it has
long since ceased to be affected by those alterations in the meaning of
words which are the normal result of daily, popular use. Certain Latin
words, it is true, acquired new meanings as Christian teaching
developed and needed to be explained and defended, but these new
meanings have long since become accepted and firmly established.

Non-vernacular

Finally, the Catholic Church has a dignity far surpassing that of every
merely human society, for it was founded by Christ the Lord. It is
altogether fitting, therefore, that the language it uses should be
noble, majestic, and non-vernacular.

In addition, the Latin language "can be called truly catholic." It has
been consecrated through constant use by the Apostolic See, the mother
and teacher of all Churches, and must be esteemed "a treasure . . . of
incomparable worth.". It is a general passport to the proper
understanding of the Christian writers of antiquity and the documents
of the Church's teaching. It is also a most effective bond, binding the
Church of today with that of the past and of the future in wonderful
continuity.

Educational value of Latin

There can be no doubt as to the formative and educational value either
of the language of the Romans or of great literature generally. It is a
most effective training for the pliant minds of youth. It exercises,
matures and perfects the principal faculties of mind and spirit. It
sharpens the wits and gives keenness of judgment. It helps the young
mind to grasp things accurately and develop a true sense of values. It
is also a means for teaching highly intelligent thought and speech.

A natural result

It will be quite clear from these considerations why the Roman Pontiffs
have so often extolled the excellence and importance of Latin, and why
they have prescribed its study and use by the secular and regular
clergy, forecasting the dangers that would result from its neglect.

A resolve to uphold Latin

And We also, impelled by the weightiest of reasons - the same as those
which prompted Our Predecessors and provincial synods - are fully
determined to restore this language to its position of honor, and to do
all We can to promote its study and use. The employment of Latin has
recently been contested in many quarters, and many are asking what the
mind of the Apostolic See is in this matter. We have therefore decided
to issue the timely directives contained in this document, so as to
ensure that the ancient and uninterrupted use of Latin be maintained
and, where necessary, restored.

We believe that We made Our own views on this subject sufficiently
clear when We said to a number of eminent Latin scholars:

"It is a matter of regret that so many people, unaccountably dazzled by
the marvelous progress of science, are taking it upon themselves to
oust or restrict the study of Latin and other kindred subjects. . . .
Yet, in spite of the urgent need for science, Our own view is that the
very contrary policy should be followed. The greatest impression is
made on the mind by those things which correspond more closely to mans
nature and dignity. And therefore the greatest zeal should be shown in
the acquisition of whatever educates and ennobles the mind. Otherwise
poor mortal creatures may well become like the machines they build -
cold, hard, and devoid of love."

Provisions for the Promotion of Latin Studies

With the foregoing considerations in mind, to which We have given
careful thought, We now, in the full consciousness of Our Office and in
virtue of Our authority, decree and command the following:

Responsibility for enforcement

1.Bishops and superiors-general of religious orders shall take pains to
ensure that in their seminaries and in their schools where adolescents
are trained for the priesthood, all shall studiously observe the
Apostolic Sees decision in this matter and obey these Our prescriptions
most carefully.

2.In the exercise of their paternal care they shall be on their guard
lest anyone under their jurisdiction, eager for revolutionary changes,
writes against the use of Latin in the teaching of the higher sacred
studies or in the liturgy, or through prejudice makes light of the Holy
Sees will in this regard or interprets it falsely.

Study of Latin as a prerequisite

3. As is laid down in Canon Law (can. 1364) or commanded by Our
Predecessors, before Church students begin their ecclesiastical studies
proper they shall be given a sufficiently lengthy course of instruction
in Latin by highly competent masters, following a method designed to
teach them the language with the utmost accuracy. "And that too for
this reason: lest later on, when they begin their major studies . . .
they are unable by reason of their ignorance of the language to gain a
full understanding of the doctrines or take part in those scholastic
disputations which constitute so excellent an intellectual training for
young men in the defense of the faith."

We wish the same rule to apply to those whom God calls to the
priesthood at a more advanced age, and whose classical studies have
either been neglected or conducted too superficially. No one is to be
admitted to the study of philosophy or theology except he be thoroughly
grounded in this language and capable of using it.

Traditional curriculum to be restored

4. Wherever the study of Latin has suffered partial eclipse through the
assimilation of the academic program to that which obtains in State
public schools, with the result that the instruction given is no longer
so thorough and well-grounded as formerly, there the traditional method
of teaching this language shall be completely restored. Such is Our
will, and there should be no doubt in anyone's mind about the necessity
of keeping a strict watch over the course of studies followed by Church
students; and that not only as regards the number and kinds of subjects
they study, but also as regards the length of time devoted to the
teaching of these subjects.

Should circumstances of time and place demand the addition of other
subjects to the curriculum besides the usual ones, then either the
course of studies must be lengthened, or these additional subjects must
be condensed or their study relegated to another time.

Sacred sciences to be taught in Latin

5. In accordance with numerous previous instructions, the major sacred
sciences shall be taught in Latin, which, as we know from many
centuries of use, "must be considered most suitable for explaining with
the utmost facility and clarity the most difficult and profound ideas
and concepts." For apart from the fact that it has long since been
enriched with a vocabulary of appropriate and unequivocal terms, best
calculated to safeguard the integrity of the Catholic faith, it also
serves in no slight measure to prune away useless verbiage.

Hence professors of these sciences in universities or seminaries are
required to speak Latin and to make use of textbooks writ ten in Latin.
If ignorance of Latin makes it difficult for some to obey these
instructions, they shall gradually be replaced by professors who are
suited to this task. Any difficulties that may be advanced by students
or professors must be overcome by the patient insistence of the bishops
or religious superiors, and the good will of the professors.

A Latin Academy

6. Since Latin is the Church's living language, it must be adequate to
daily increasing linguistic requirements. It must be furnished with new
words that are apt and suitable for expressing modern things, words
that will be uniform and universal in their application. and
constructed in conformity with the genius of the ancient Latin tongue.
Such was the method followed by the sacred Fathers and the best writers
among the scholastics.

To this end, therefore, We com mission the Sacred Congregation of
Seminaries and Universities to set up a Latin Academy staffed by an
international body of Latin and Greek professors. The principal aim of
this Academy - like the national academies founded to promote their
respective languages - will be to superintend the proper development of
Latin, augmenting the Latin lexicon where necessary with words which
conform to the particular character and color of the language.

It will also conduct schools for the study of Latin of every era,
particularly the Christian one. The aim of these schools will be to
impart a fuller understanding of Latin and the ability to use it and to
write it with proper elegance. They will exist for those who are
destined to teach Latin in seminaries and ecclesiastical colleges, or
to write decrees and judgments or conduct correspondence in the
ministries of the Holy See, diocesan curias, and the offices of
religious orders.

The teaching of Greek

7. Latin is closely allied to Greek both in formal structure and in the
importance of its extant writings. Hence - as Our Predecessors have
frequently ordained - future ministers of the altar must be instructed
in Greek in the lower and middle schools. Thus when they come to study
the higher sciences - and especially if they are aiming for a degree in
Sacred Scripture or theology - they will be enabled to follow the Greek
sources of scholastic philosophy and understand them correctly; and not
only these, but also the original texts of Sacred Scripture, the
liturgy, and the sacred Fathers.

A syllabus for the teaching of Latin

8. We further commission the Sacred Congregation of Seminaries and
Universities to prepare a syllabus for the teaching of Latin which all
shall faithfully observe. The syllabus will be designed to give those
who follow it an adequate understanding of the language and its use.
Episcopal boards may indeed rearrange this syllabus if circumstances
warrant, but they must never curtail it or alter its nature. Ordinaries
may not take it upon themselves to put their own proposals into effect
until these have been examined and approved by the Sacred Congregation.

Finally, in virtue of Our apostolic authority, We will and command that
all the decisions, decrees, proclamations and recommendations of this
Our Constitution remain firmly established and ratified,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary, however worthy of special
note.

Given at Rome, at Saint Peters, on the feast of Saint Peters Throne on
the 22nd day of February in the year 1962, the fourth of Our
pontificate.

