____________________

[8]Last Will and Testament of Pope Saint John XXIII, 29 June 1954

[9]Pope John XXII, 1959

1. My Spiritual Testament And Last Wishes

On the point of presenting myself before the One and Triune Lord who
created me, redeemed me, chose me to be his priest and bishop, and
covered me with unending graces, I entrust my poor soul to His mercy; I
humbly ask pardon for my sins and deficiencies. I offer Him the little
good, although petty and imperfect, that with His aid I have succeeded
in doing, for His glory, for the service of Holy Church, for the
edification of my brethren, begging Him finally to receive me, like a
good and kind father, with His Saints into eternal happiness.

A Profession Of Faith

I profess once again with all my heart my entire Christian and Catholic
faith, my adherence and subjection to the Holy Apostolic and Roman
Church, and my complete devotion and obedience to her August Head, the
Supreme Pontiff, whom it was my great honor to represent for long years
in various regions of the East and West, who at the end chose to have
me come to Venice as [10]Cardinal and Patriarch, and whom I have always
followed with sincere affection, aside from and above and beyond any
dignity conferred upon me. The sense of my own littleness and
nothingness has always been my good companion, keeping me humble and
calm, and making me employ myself to the best of my ability in a
constant exercise of obedience and charity for souls and for the
interests of the Kingdom of Jesus, my Lord and my all. To Him be all
glory; for me and for my merit. His mercy. Meritum meum miseratio
Domini. Domine, tu omnia nosti: tu scis quia amo Te. This alone is
enough for me.

A Request For Pardon

I ask pardon of those whom I have unwittingly offended, of all to whom
I have not been a source of edification. I feel that I have nothing to
forgive anyone, for all who have known and dealt with me?including
those who have offended me, scorned me, held me in bad esteem (with
good reason, for that matter), or have been a source of affliction to
me?I regard solely as brothers and benefactors, to whom I am grateful
and for whom I pray and always will pray.

The Grace Of Poverty

Born poor, but of honorable and humble people, I am particularly happy
to die poor, having given away, in accordance with the various demands
and circumstances of my simple and modest life, for the benefit of the
poor and of the Holy Church that had nurtured me, all that came into my
hands?which was little enough, as a matter of fact?during the years of
my priesthood and episcopacy. Outward appearances of ease and comfort
often veiled hidden thorns of distressing poverty and kept me from
giving with all the largesse I would have liked. I thank God for this
grace of poverty, which I vowed in my youth, poverty of spirit as a
priest of the Sacred Heart, and real poverty. This grace has sustained
me in never asking for anything, neither positions, nor money, nor
favors?never, not for myself, nor for my relatives or friends.

To The Pope's Own Family

To my beloved family secundum sanguinem from whom, in fact, I have
received no material wealth?I can leave only a whole-hearted and most
special blessing, inviting it to maintain that fear of God that always
made it so dear and beloved to me, simple and modest as it was, without
my ever feeling ashamed of it: this is its true title to honor. I have
also helped it at times in its more serious needs, as one poor man with
the other poor, but without ever removing it from the honorable poverty
with which it was content. I pray and always will pray for its
prosperity; I am happy to see in its new, vigorous offshoots that
strength and loyalty to their fathers' religious tradition which will
always be its fortune. My most fervent wish is that none of my
relatives and dear ones may miss the joy of that last eternal reunion.

Departing, as I trust, for the roads of Heaven, I salute and thank and
bless the many who formed my spiritual family at Bergamo, at Rome, in
the East, in France, and at Venice, and who were my fellow townsmen,
benefactors, colleagues, students, aides, friends and acquaintances,
priests and laymen. Brothers and Sisters, and for whom, by the
disposition of Providence, I was, no matter how unworthy, a colleague,
a father, or a pastor.

To All His Benefactors

The goodness directed toward my poor person by all whom I met along my
path made my life serene. As I face death, I recall each and every
one?those who have preceded me in taking the final step, those who will
survive me and who will follow me. May they pray for me. I will repay
them from Purgatory or from Paradise, where I hope to be received, I
repeat it once again, not because of my merits, but because of the
mercy of my Lord.

To His Children Of Venice

I remember all and will pray for all. But my children of Venice ?the
last ones the Lord placed around me, as a final consolation and joy for
my priestly life?I want especially to mention as a sign of my
admiration, my gratitude, my very special tenderness. I embrace them
all in spirit, clergy and laity without exception, as I have loved them
without exception as members of the same family, the object of one
paternal and priestly care and love. Pater sancte, serva eos in nomine
tuo quos dedisti mihi: ut sint unum sicut et nos.

A Final Reminder

At the moment for saying farewell, or better still, arrivederci, I once
more remind everyone of what counts most in life: blessed Jesus Christ,
His Holy Church, His Gospel; and in the Gospel, above all, the Pater
noster in the spirit and heart of Jesus and the Gospel, the truth and
goodness, the goodness meek and kind, active and patient, victorious
and unbowed.

My children, my brethren, arrivederci. In the name of the Father, of
the Son, of the Holy Spirit. In the name of Jesus, our love; of Mary,
our and His most sweet Mother; of Saint Joseph, my first and specially
loved Protector. In the name of Saint Peter, Saint John the Baptist,
Saint Mark, Saint Lawrence Justinian, and Saint Pius X. Amen.

[11]Cardinal Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli, patriarch.

(The following additions to the text were all made in his own
handwriting.)

The pages that I have written are valid, as an attestation of my
absolute will in case of my sudden death.
Venice, September 17, 1957, Angelo Giuseppe [12]Cardinal Roncalli

And they are valid also as a spiritual testament to be added to the
provisions of the will joined here under the date of April 30, 1959.

John PP. XXIII, From Rome, December 4, 1959.
My Testament

Castel Gandolfo, September 12, 1961

Under the dear and trusting auspices of Mary, my heavenly Mother, to
whose name is dedicated today's liturgy, and in the eightieth year of
my age, I hereby lay down and renew my testament, annulling every other
declaration concerning my will made and written prior to this a number
of times.

I await and will accept with simplicity and joy the arrival of sister
death in all the circumstances with which it will please the Lord to
send her to me.

For God's forgiveness

First of all, I ask forgiveness of the Father of mercies pro
innumerabilibus peccatis, offensionibus et negligentiis meis, as I have
so often said and repeated in offering my daily Sacrifice.

For this first grace of Jesus' pardon for all my faults, and of my
soul's introduction into blessed and eternal Paradise, I recommend
myself to the prayers of all who have followed me and known me during
the whole of my life as priest, bishop, and most humble and unworthy
Servant of the Servants of the Lord.

Renewal Of Faith

Next, my heart leaps with joy to make a fervent, whole-hearted renewal
of my profession of Catholic, apostolic, and Roman faith. Among the
various forms and symbols with which the faith is usually expressed, I
prefer the priestly and pontifical "Credo of the Mass" because of its
more vast, more sonorous elevation as in union with the universal
Church of every rite, of every age, of every region?from the "Credo in
unum Deum, patrem omnipotentem" to the "et vitam venturi saeculi."

