____________________

[8]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 11 February 2009 - Saint John
Climacus

[9]detail of a painting of monks of the Ladder of Divine Ascent as
described in the vision of Saint John Climacus, the 30 rungs
symbolizing Saint John's 30 virtues; latter 12th century, artist
unknown; Saint Catherine's Monastery, Sinai, Egypt; swiped from
Wikimedia Commons After 20 Catecheses dedicated to the Apostle Paul,
today I would like to return to presenting the great writers of the
Church of the East and of the West in the Middle Ages. And I am
proposing the figure of John known as Climacus, a Latin transliteration
of the Greek term klimakos, which means of the ladder (klimax). This is
the title of his most important work in which he describes the ladder
of human life ascending towards God. He was born in about [10]575 a.d.
He lived, therefore, during the years in which Byzantium, the capital
of the Roman Empire of the East, experienced the greatest crisis in its
history. The geographical situation of the Empire suddenly changed and
the torrent of barbarian invasions swept away all its structures. Only
the structure of the Church withstood them, continuing in these
difficult times to carry out her missionary, human, social and cultural
action, especially through the network of monasteries in which great
religious figures such as, precisely, John Climacus were active.

John lived and told of his spiritual experiences in the Mountains of
Sinai, where Moses encountered God and Elijah heard his voice.
Information on him has been preserved in a brief Life (PG 88, 596-608),
written by a monk, Daniel of Raithu. At the age of 16, John, who had
become a monk on Mount Sinai, made himself a disciple of Abba Martyr,
an "elder", that is, a "wise man". At about 20 years of age, he chose
to live as a hermit in a grotto at the foot of the mountain in the
locality of Tola, eight kilometres from the present-day Saint
Catherine's Monastery. Solitude, however, did not prevent him from
meeting people eager for spiritual direction, or from paying visits to
several monasteries near Alexandria. In fact, far from being an escape
from the world and human reality, his eremitical retreat led to ardent
love for others (Life, 5) and for God (ibid., 7). After 40 years of
life as a hermit, lived in love for God and for neighbour years in
which he wept, prayed and fought with demons he was appointed hegumen
of the large monastery on Mount Sinai and thus returned to cenobitic
life in a monastery. However, several years before his death, nostalgic
for the eremitical life, he handed over the government of the community
to his brother, a monk in the same monastery. John died after the year
650. He lived his life between two mountains, Sinai and Tabor and one
can truly say that he radiated the light which Moses saw on Sinai and
which was contemplated by the three Apostles on Mount Tabor!

He became famous, as I have already said, through his work, entitled
The Climax, in the West known as the Ladder of Divine Ascent (PG 88,
632-1164). Composed at the insistent request of the hegumen of the
neighbouring Monastery of Raithu in Sinai, the Ladder is a complete
treatise of spiritual life in which John describes the monk's journey
from renunciation of the world to the perfection of love. This journey
according to his book covers 30 steps, each one of which is linked to
the next. The journey may be summarized in three consecutive stages:
the first is expressed in renunciation of the world in order to return
to a state of evangelical childhood. Thus, the essential is not the
renunciation but rather the connection with what Jesus said, that is,
the return to true childhood in the spiritual sense, becoming like
children. John comments: "A good foundation of three layers and three
pillars is: innocence, fasting and temperance. Let all babes in Christ
(cf. 1 Cor 3: 1) begin with these virtues, taking as their model the
natural babes" (1, 20; 636). Voluntary detachment from beloved people
and places permits the soul to enter into deeper communion with God.
This renunciation leads to obedience which is the way to humility
through humiliations which will never be absent on the part of the
brethren. John comments: "Blessed is he who has mortified his will to
the very end and has entrusted the care of himself to his teacher in
the Lord: indeed he will be placed on the right hand of the Crucified
One!" (4, 37; 704).

The second stage of the journey consists in spiritual combat against
the passions. Every step of the ladder is linked to a principal passion
that is defined and diagnosed, with an indication of the treatment and
a proposal of the corresponding virtue. All together, these steps of
the ladder undoubtedly constitute the most important treatise of
spiritual strategy that we possess. The struggle against the passions,
however, is steeped in the positive it does not remain as something
negative thanks to the image of the "fire" of the Holy Spirit: that
"all those who enter upon the good fight (cf. 1 Tm 6: 12), which is
hard and narrow,... may realize that they must leap into the fire, if
they really expect the celestial fire to dwell in them" (1,18; 636).
The fire of the Holy Spirit is the fire of love and truth. The power of
the Holy Spirit alone guarantees victory. However, according to John
Climacus it is important to be aware that the passions are not evil in
themselves; they become so through human freedom's wrong use of them.
If they are purified, the passions reveal to man the path towards God
with energy unified by ascesis and grace and, "if they have received
from the Creator an order and a beginning..., the limit of virtue is
boundless" (26/2, 37; 1068).

The last stage of the journey is Christian perfection that is developed
in the last seven steps of the Ladder. These are the highest stages of
spiritual life, which can be experienced by the "Hesychasts": the
solitaries, those who have attained quiet and inner peace; but these
stages are also accessible to the more fervent cenobites. Of the first
three simplicity, humility and discernment John, in line with the
Desert Fathers, considered the ability to discern, the most important.
Every type of behaviour must be subject to discernment; everything, in
fact, depends on one's deepest motivations, which need to be closely
examined. Here one enters into the soul of the person and it is a
question of reawakening in the hermit, in the Christian, spiritual
sensitivity and a "feeling heart", which are gifts from God: "After
God, we ought to follow our conscience as a rule and guide in
everything," (26/1,5; 1013). In this way one reaches tranquillity of
soul, hesychia, by means of which the soul may gaze upon the abyss of
the divine mysteries.

The state of quiet, of inner peace, prepares the Hesychast for prayer
which in John is twofold: "corporeal prayer" and "prayer of the heart".
The former is proper to those who need the help of bodily movement:
stretching out the hands, uttering groans, beating the breast, etc.
(15, 26; 900). The latter is spontaneous, because it is an effect of
the reawakening of spiritual sensitivity, a gift of God to those who
devote themselves to corporeal prayer. In John this takes the name
"Jesus prayer" (Iesou euche), and is constituted in the invocation of
solely Jesus' name, an invocation that is continuous like breathing:
"May your remembrance of Jesus become one with your breathing, and you
will then know the usefulness of hesychia", inner peace (27/2, 26;
1112). At the end the prayer becomes very simple: the word "Jesus"
simply becomes one with the breath.

The last step of the ladder (30), suffused with "the sober inebriation
of the spirit", is dedicated to the supreme "trinity of virtues":
faith, hope and above all charity. John also speaks of charity as eros
(human love), a symbol of the matrimonial union of the soul with God,
and once again chooses the image of fire to express the fervour, light
and purification of love for God. The power of human love can be
reoriented to God, just as a cultivated olive may be grafted on to a
wild olive tree (cf. Rm 11: 24) (cf. 15, 66; 893). John is convinced
that an intense experience of this eros will help the soul to advance
far more than the harsh struggle against the passions, because of its
great power. Thus, in our journey, the positive aspect prevails. Yet
charity is also seen in close relation to hope: "Hope is the power that
drives love. Thanks to hope, we can look forward to the reward of
charity.... Hope is the doorway of love.... The absence of hope
destroys charity: our efforts are bound to it, our labours are
sustained by it, and through it we are enveloped by the mercy of God"
(30, 16; 1157). The conclusion of the Ladder contains the synthesis of
the work in words that the author has God himself utter: "May this
ladder teach you the spiritual disposition of the virtues. I am at the
summit of the ladder, and as my great initiate (St Paul) said: "So
faith, hope, love abide, these three; but the greatest of these is
love' (1 Cor 13: 13)!" (30, 18; 1160).

At this point, a last question must be asked: can the Ladder, a work
written by a hermit monk who lived 1,400 years ago, say something to us
today? Can the existential journey of a man who lived his entire life
on Mount Sinai in such a distant time be relevant to us? At first
glance it would seem that the answer must be "no", because John
Climacus is too remote from us. But if we look a little closer, we see
that the monastic life is only a great symbol of baptismal life, of
Christian life. It shows, so to speak, in capital letters what we write
day after day in small letters. It is a prophetic symbol that reveals
what the life of the baptized person is, in communion with Christ, with
his death and Resurrection. The fact that the top of the "ladder", the
final steps, are at the same time the fundamental, initial and most
simple virtues is particularly important to me: faith, hope and
charity. These are not virtues accessible only to moral heroes; rather
they are gifts of God to all the baptized: in them our life develops
too. The beginning is also the end, the starting point is also the
point of arrival: the whole journey towards an ever more radical
realization of faith, hope and charity. The whole ascent is present in
these virtues. Faith is fundamental, because this virtue implies that I
renounce my arrogance, my thought, and the claim to judge by myself
without entrusting myself to others. This journey towards humility,
towards spiritual childhood is essential. It is necessary to overcome
the attitude of arrogance that makes one say: I know better, in this my
time of the 21st century, than what people could have known then.
Instead, it is necessary to entrust oneself to Sacred Scripture alone,
to the word of the Lord, to look out on the horizon of faith with
humility, in order to enter into the enormous immensity of the
universal world, of the world of God. In this way our soul grows, the
sensitivity of the heart grows toward God. Rightly, John Climacus says
that hope alone renders us capable of living charity; hope in which we
transcend the things of every day, we do not expect success in our
earthly days but we look forward to the revelation of God himself at
last. It is only in this extension of our soul, in this
self-transcendence, that our life becomes great and that we are able to
bear the effort and disappointments of every day, that we can be kind
to others without expecting any reward. Only if there is God, this
great hope to which I aspire, can I take the small steps of my life and
thus learn charity. The mystery of prayer, of the personal knowledge of
Jesus, is concealed in charity: simple prayer that strives only to move
the divine Teacher's heart. So it is that one's own heart opens, one
learns from him his own kindness, his love. Let us therefore use this
"ascent" of faith, hope and charity. In this way we will arrive at true
life.

