____________________

[8]Apostolic Constitution on the Sacrament of Anointing of the Sick, by Pope
Paul VI, 30 November 1972

[9]official portrait of Pope Paul VI

1. The Catholic Church professes and
teaches that the Sacred Anointing of the Sick is one of the seven
Sacraments of the New Testament, that it was instituted by Christ and
that it is "alluded to in Mark (Mark 6:13) and recommended and
promulgated to the faithful by James the apostle and brother of the
Lord. If any one of you is ill, he says, he should send for the elders
of the church, and they must anoint him with oil in the name of the
Lord and pray over him. The prayer of faith will save the sick man and
the Lord will raise him up again, and if he has committed any sins, he
will be forgiven (James 5:14-15)."

From ancient times testimonies of the Anointing of the Sick are found
in the Church's Tradition, particularly her liturgical Tradition, both
in the East and in the West. Especially worthy of note in this regard
are the Letter which Innocent I, our predecessor, addressed to
Decentius, Bishop of Gubbio, and the venerable prayer used for blessing
the Oil of the Sick: "Send forth O Lord, your Holy Spirit the
Paraclete," which was inserted in the Eucharistic Prayer and is still
preserved in the Roman Pontifical.

In the course of the centuries, in the liturgical Tradition the parts
of the body of the sick person to be anointed with Holy Oil were more
explicitly defined, in different ways, and there were added various
formulas to accompany the anointings with prayer, which are contained
in the liturgical books of various Churches. During the Middle Ages, in
the Roman Church there prevailed the custom of anointing the sick on
the five senses, using the formula: "Per istam Sanctam unctionem et
suam piissimam misericordiam, indulgeat tibi Dominus quidquid
deliquisti," adapted to each sense.

In addition, the doctrine concerning Sacred Anointing is expounded in
the documents of the Ecumenical Councils, namely the Council of
Florence and in particular the Council of Trent and the Second Vatican
Council.

After the Council of Florence had described the essential elements of
the Anointing of the Sick, the Council of Trent declared its divine
institution and explained what is given in the Epistle of Saint James
concerning the Sacred Anointing, especially with regard to the reality
and effects of the sacrament: "This reality is in fact the grace of the
Holy Spirit, whose anointing takes away sins, if any still remain to be
taken away, and the remnants of sin; it also relieves and strengthens
the soul of the sick person, arousing in him a great confidence in the
divine mercy, whereby being thus sustained he more easily bears the
trials and labors of his sickness, more easily resists the temptations
of the devil `lying in wait' (Genesis 3:15), and sometimes regains
bodily health, if this is expedient for the health of the soul." The
same Council also declared that in these words of the Apostle it is
stated with sufficient clarity that "this anointing is to be
administered to the sick, especially those who are in such a condition
as to appear to have reached the end of their life, whence it is also
called the sacrament of the dying." Finally, it declared that the
priest is the proper minister of the sacrament.

The Second Vatican Council adds the following: "`Extreme Unction,'
which may also and more fittingly be called `Anointing of the Sick,' is
not a sacrament for those only who are at the point of death. Hence, as
soon as any one of the faithful begins to be in danger of death from
sickness or old age, the appropriate time for him to receive this
sacrament has certainly already arrived." The fact that the use of this
sacrament concerns the whole Church is shown by these words: "By the
sacred anointing of the sick and the prayer of her priests, the whole
Church commends those who are ill to the suffering and glorified Lord,
asking that He may lighten their suffering and save them (cf. James
5:14-16). She exhorts them, moreover, to contribute to the welfare of
the whole People of God by associating themselves freely with the
passion and death of Christ (cf. Romans 8:17; Colossians 1:24; 2nd
Timothy 2:11-12; 1st Peter 4:13)." All these elements had to be taken
into consideration in revising the rite of Sacred Anointing, in order
better to adapt to present-day conditions those elements which were
subject to change.

We thought fit to modify the sacramental formula in such a way that, in
view of the words of Saint James, the effects of the sacrament might be
better expressed.

Further, since olive oil, which hitherto had been prescribed for the
valid administration of the sacrament, is unobtainable or difficult to
obtain in some parts of the world, we decreed, at the request of
numerous bishops, that in the future, according to the circumstances,
oil of another sort could also be used, provided it were obtained from
plants, inasmuch as this more closely resembles the matter indicated in
Holy Scripture.

As regards the number of anointings and the parts of the body to be
anointed, it has seemed to us opportune to proceed to a simplification
of the rite.

Therefore, since this revision in certain points touches upon the
sacramental rite itself, by our Apostolic authority we lay down that
the following is to be observed for the future in the Latin Rite:

THE SACRAMENT OF THE ANOINTING OF THE SICK IS ADMINISTERED TO THOSE WHO
ARE DANGEROUSLY ILL, BY ANOINTING THEM ON THE FOREHEAD AND HANDS WITH
OLIVE OIL, OR, IF OPPORTUNE, WITH ANOTHER VEGETABLE OIL PROPERLY
BLESSED, AND SAYING ONCE ONLY THE FOLLOWING WORDS: "PER ISTAM SANCTAM
UNCTIONEM ET SUAM PIISSIMAM MISERICORDIAM ADIUVET TE DOMINUS GRATIA
SPIRITUS SANCTI, UT A PECCATIS LIBERATUM TE SALVET ATQUE PROPITIUS
ALLEVIET."

In case of necessity however it is sufficient that a single anointing
be given on the forehead or, because of the particular condition of the
sick person, on another more suitable part of the body, the whole
formula being pronounced.

This sacrament can be repeated if the sick person having once received
the Anointing, recovers and then again falls sick, or if, in the course
of the same illness, the danger becomes more acute.

Having laid down and declared these elements concerning the essential
rite of the sacrament of the Anointing of the Sick, we, by our
Apostolic authority, also approve the Order of the Anointing of the
Sick and of their pastoral care, as it has been revised by the Sacred
Congregation for Divine Worship. At the same time, we revoke where
necessary, the prescriptions of the Code of Canon Law or other laws
hitherto in force, or we abrogate them other prescriptions and laws,
which are neither abrogated nor changed by the above-mentioned Order,
remain valid and in force. The Latin edition of the Order containing
the new rite will come into force as soon as it is published. The
vernacular editions, prepared by the episcopal conferences and
confirmed by the Apostolic See, will come into force on the day which
will be laid down by the individual conferences. The old Order can be
used until December 31, 1973. From January 1, 1974, however, the new
Order only is to be used by all those whom it concerns.

We desire that these decrees and prescriptions of ours shall, now and
in the future, be fully effective in the Latin Rite, notwithstanding,
as far as is necessary, the Apostolic Constitutions and Directives
issued by our predecessors and other prescriptions, even if worthy of
special mention.

Given at Saint Peter's in Rome, on the thirtieth day of November, in
the year 1972, the tenth of our Pontificate.

