____________________

[8]Pope John Paul II - Homily at the Beatification of Bernardina Jablonska
and Maria Karlowska - 6 June 1997

[9]Pope Saint John Paul II 1. We meet today in this great liturgical
assembly at the foot of the Cross on Mount Giewont, on the Solemnity of
the Sacred Heart of Jesus. I thank Divine Providence for enabling me to
celebrate this Solemnity in my homeland, with you - dear Brothers and
Sisters - who faithfully preserve in your religious devotion veneration
for the mystery of the Heart of Jesus. The Church in Poland made a
great contribution to the introduction into the liturgical calendar of
the Solemnity of the Sacred Heart of Jesus. It was the expression of a
deep desire that the extraordinary fruits produced by this devotion
should be multiplied in the life of the faithful throughout the Church.
And so it happened. How we should thank God for all the graces which we
experience through his Son's Heart! How thankful we are for today's
meeting! We have long waited for it. For a long time you had been
inviting the Pope, an invitation made on various occasions, especially
during your frequent pilgrimages to the Eternal City. You certainly
remember how I then used to say that we have to be patient and leave to
Divine Providence the visit to Zakopane. During my pilgrimage to
Slovakia, at Levoca, I read the placard which you had prepared:
"Zakopane is waiting! Zakopane welcomes you!" And today we can say that
Zakopane has managed it and I have too. God has so arranged it: Our
Lady of Levoca has brought the Pope to Zakopane.

I greet you all, especially the people of Zakopane. I address words of
particular greeting to Cardinal Franciszek, Metropolitan of Krakow, to
his Auxiliary Bishops, and to the Bishops who have come from
neighbouring Dioceses. I greet the clergy, the women Religious, and
especially the Albertine Sisters and the Good Shepherd Sisters, for
whom this day has a particular significance. I address words of
greeting to the Mayor of Zakopane and to the local Authorities of
Podhale. I am grateful for this eloquent homage of Podhale, ever
faithful to the Church and the Nation. You can always be counted on!
Let us thank God for this day which he has made for us. In a spirit of
gratitude I wish, together with you - dear Brothers and Sisters - to
meditate upon the great mystery of the Sacred Heart of Jesus. It is
good that we can do this in the course of my pilgrimage occasioned by
the Eucharistic Congress in Wroc_aw. In fact, all devotion to the Heart
of Jesus and all its manifestations are profoundly Eucharistic.

2. "They shall look on him whom they have pierced" (Jn 19:37). These
are the words which we have just heard. With this prophetic quotation
Saint John ends his description of Christ's Passion and Death on the
Cross. We know from it that on Good Friday, before the Feast of the
Passover, the Jews asked Pilate that the legs of those crucified might
be broken and their bodies taken away (cf. Jn 19:31). The soldiers did
this to the two criminals crucified with Jesus. "But when they came to
Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs.
But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once
there came out blood and water" (Jn 19:33-34). It was the proof of
death. The soldiers were able to assure their superior that Jesus of
Nazareth had ceased to live. But Saint John the Evangelist sees at this
point the need for a special authentication. He writes thus: "He who
saw it has borne witness--his witness is true". And at the same time he
affirms that in this piercing of Christ's side the Scripture had been
fulfilled. For it says: "Not a bone of him shall be broken", and
elsewhere: "They shall look on him whom they have pierced" (Jn
19:35-37).

This Gospel passage is at the foundation of the whole tradition of
devotion to the Divine Heart. It developed in a special way from the
seventeenth century onwards, in connection with the revelations to
Saint Margaret Mary Alacoque. Our own century testifies to an intense
development of devotion to the Heart of Jesus, attested to by the
magnificent "Litany of the Sacred Heart" and linked to it "The Act of
Consecration of the Human Race to the Sacred Heart" with the added "Act
of Reparation to the Sacred Heart". All this has profoundly pervaded
our Polish piety; it has become part of the life of many of the
faithful who feel the need to make reparation to the Heart of Jesus for
the sins of humanity and also of individual nations, families and
people.

3. "They shall look on him whom they have pierced"- these words guide
our gaze towards the Holy Cross, towards the tree of the Cross on which
was hung the Saviour of the world. "For the word of the Cross is folly
to those who are perishing, but for us it is the power of God" (cf. 1
Cor 1:18). The people of Podhale understood this well. And as the
nineteenth century was drawing to a close and the new one was
beginning, your forebears planted a Cross on the top of Giewont. It is
there and remains there still. The Cross is a silent but eloquent
witness to our time. It can be said that this Jubilee Cross looks in
the direction of Zakopane and Krakow, and beyond: in the direction of
Warsaw and Danzig. It embraces all our land from the Tatra to the
Baltic. Your fathers wanted the Cross of Christ to reign in a special
way in this beautiful corner of Poland. And thus it happened. This city
of yours extended, one can say, to the feet of the Cross; it lives and
develops in its radius. The beautiful little wayside chapels, carefully
carved and tended, speak of this fact. This Christ accompanies you in
your daily work as well as on your walks through the mountains. The
churches of this city speak of it, both the ancient and monumental
ones, which contain the whole mystery of faith and human piety, and
also recent ones, built thanks to your generosity.

Dear Brothers and Sisters, do not be ashamed of this Cross. Try every
day to accept it and to return Christ's love. Defend the Cross; do not
offend God's Name in your hearts, in family or social life. We thank
Divine Providence that the crucifix has returned to the schools, public
offices and hospitals. May it ever remain there! May it remind us of
our Christian dignity and national identity, what we are and where we
are going and where our roots are. May it remind us of God's love for
humanity, which on the Cross found its deepest expression.

Love is always associated with the heart. The Apostle Paul linked it
precisely to that Heart which on Golgotha was pierced by the
centurion's lance. In this gesture there was revealed the depth of the
love with which the Father has loved the world. He has loved it so
intensely "that he gave his only Son" (Jn 3:16). In this pierced Heart
that dimension of love which is greater than any created love whatever
has found its external expression. In it saving and redemptive love has
manifested itself. The Father has given "his only Son, that whoever
believes in him should not perish but have eternal life" (Jn 3:16). And
therefore Paul writes: "I bend my knees before the Father, from whom
every family in heaven and on earth is named" (Eph 3:14-15); I bend
them to express the gratitude which I feel before the revelation which
the Father has made of his love in his Son's redeeming Death. At the
same time I bend my knees, so that God "according to the riches of his
glory may grant you to be strengthened with might through his Spirit in
the inner man" (Eph 3:16). The heart is precisely "the inner man". The
Heart of God's Son becomes, for the Apostle, the source of strength for
all human hearts. All this has been wonderfully rendered in many of the
invocations of the Litany of the Sacred Heart.

4. The Heart of Jesus became the source of strength for the two women
whom the Church is raising today to the glory of the altars. Thanks to
this strength they reached the heights of holiness. Maria Bernardina
Jab_o_ska - spiritual daughter of Saint Albert Chmielowski, his helper
and the one who continued his work of mercy; living in poverty, she
consecrated herself to the service of the poorest of the poor. The
Church places this devout Religious before us today as an example. Her
motto of life were the words: "To give, eternally to give". With her
gaze fixed on Christ she followed him faithfully, imitating his love.
She wanted to satisfy her neigbour's every request, to dry every tear,
to console at least with a word every suffering soul. She always wanted
to be good to everyone, but even better to those most tried by fate.
She used to say: "My neighbour's suffering is my suffering". Together
with Saint Albert she founded hospices for those who were sick and
homeless as a result of war.

This great and heroic love matured in prayer, in the silence of the
nearby hermitage of Kalatówki, where she stayed for some time. In
life's most difficult moments - in keeping with the suggestions of the
one who guided her soul - she entrusted herself to the Sacred Heart of
Jesus. To him she offered everything she possessed, especially her
inner sufferings and physical torments. All for the love of Christ! As
Superior General of the Congregation of the Sisters Servants of the
Poor of the Third Order of Saint Francis - the Albertines - she
ceaselessly gave her sisters the example of that love which flows from
the union of the human heart with the Sacred Heart of the Saviour.
Jesus' Heart was her solace in her service of the most needy.

At the same time, in the territories under Prussian occupation, another
woman, Maria Karlowska, worked as a true Samaritan among women
suffering great material and moral deprivation. Her holy zeal quickly
attracted a group of disciples of Christ, with whom she founded the
Congregation of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd of Divine Providence.
For herself and her Sisters she set the following goal: "We must
proclaim the Heart of Jesus, that is, so to live from him, in him and
for him, as to become like him and that in our lives he may be more
visible than we ourselves". Her devotion to the Saviour's Sacred Heart
bore fruit in a great love for people. She felt an insatiable hunger
for love. A love of this kind, according to Blessed Maria Kar_owska,
will never say "enough", will never stop mid-way. Precisely this
happened to her, who was as it were transported by the current of love
of the Divine Paraclete. Thanks to this love she restored to many souls
the light of Christ and helped them to regain their lost dignity.

Dear Brothers and Sisters, both these heroic women Religious, carrying
forward their holy works in extremely difficult conditions, showed in
all its fullness the dignity of woman and the greatness of her
vocation. They showed that "feminine genius" which is revealed in deep
sensitivity to human suffering, in tact, openness and readiness to
help, and in other qualities proper to the feminine heart. Often this
is shown without drawing attention to itself and therefore is sometimes
undervalued. How much today's world, our generation, needs this! How
badly needed is this feminine sensitivity in the things of God and man,
that our families and all of society may be filled with heartfelt
warmth, goodwill, peace and joy! How much this "feminine genius" is
needed, that today's world may esteem the values of life,
responsibility and faithfulness; that it may preserve respect for human
dignity! For God, in his eternal plan, has established such a role for
women, by creating the human being "man and woman" in his own "image
and likeness".

5. In his Letter to the Ephesians Saint Paul makes as it were a
personal confession. He writes: "To me, though I am the very least of
all the saints, this grace was given, to preach to the Gentiles the
unsearchable riches of Christ, and to make all men see what is the plan
of the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all things" (3:8-9).
In this way, through the Heart of Jesus Crucified and Risen, we read
God's eternal plan for the salvation of the world. The Divine Heart
becomes, in a sense, the centre of this plan, which is mysterious and
which gives life. In this Heart the plan is fulfilled. As the Apostle
writes: "that through the Church the manifold wisdom of God might now
be made known ... This was according to the eternal purpose which he
has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and
confidence of access through our faith in him" (Eph 3:10-12).

All is contained here. Christ is the fulfilment of the divine plan of
redemptive love. By virtue of this plan man has access to God, not only
as a creature to its Creator, but as a son to his father. Christianity
therefore means a new creation, a new life - life in Christ through
which man can say to God: Abba - my Father, our Father. The Solemnity
of the Sacred Heart of Jesus is thus in a sense a magnificent
completion of the Eucharist, and the Church, guided by a profound
intuition of faith, therefore celebrates this feast of the Divine Heart
on the day after the end of the octave of Corpus Christi.

We praise you, Christ our Saviour, who from your Heart on fire with
love pour out upon us fountains of grace. We thank you for these graces
through which the hosts of the saints and beati have been able to bring
to the world the witness of your love. We thank you for the Blessed
Sisters - Maria Bernardina and Maria - who found the source of their
holiness in your loving Heart.

Most Sacred Heart of Jesus, have mercy on us!

