____________________

[9]Pope Francis - Palm Sunday Homily, 24 March 2013

1. Jesus enters Jerusalem. The crowd of disciples
accompanies him in festive mood, their garments are stretched out
before him, there is talk of the miracles he has accomplished, and loud
praises are heard: "Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the
Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!" (Lk 19:38).

Crowds, celebrating, praise, blessing, peace: joy fills the air. Jesus
has awakened great hopes, especially in the hearts of the simple, the
humble, the poor, the forgotten, those who do not matter in the eyes of
the world. He understands human sufferings, he has shown the face of
God's mercy, he has bent down to heal body and soul. Now he enters the
Holy City!

It is a beautiful scene, full of light, joy, celebration.

At the beginning of Mass, we repeated all this. We waved our palms, our
olive branches, we sang "Blessed is the King who comes in the name of
the Lord" (Antiphon); we too welcomed Jesus; we too expressed our joy
at accompanying him, at knowing him to be close, present in us and
among us as a friend, a brother, and also as a King: that is, a shining
beacon for our lives. And here the first word that comes to mind is
"joy!" Do not be men and women of sadness: a Christian can never be
sad! Never give way to discouragement! Ours is not a joy that comes
from having many possessions, but from having encountered a Person:
Jesus, from knowing that with him we are never alone, even at difficult
moments, even when our life's journey comes up against problems and
obstacles that seem insurmountable, and there are so many of them! We
accompany, we follow Jesus, but above all we know that he accompanies
us and carries us on his shoulders. This is our joy, this is the hope
that we must bring to this world of ours. Let us bring the joy of the
faith to everyone!

2. But we have to ask: why does Jesus enter Jerusalem? Or better: how
does Jesus enter Jerusalem? The crowds acclaim him as King. And he does
not deny it, he does not tell them to be silent (cf. Lk 19:39-40). But
what kind of a King is Jesus? Let us take a look at him: he is riding
on a donkey, he is not accompanied by a court, he is not surrounded by
an army as a symbol of power. He is received by humble people, simple
folk. Jesus does not enter the Holy City to receive the honours
reserved to earthly kings, to the powerful, to rulers; he enters to be
scourged, insulted and abused, as Isaiah foretold in the First Reading
(cf. Is 50:6). He enters to receive a crown of thorns, a staff, a
purple robe: his kingship becomes an object of derision. He enters to
climb Calvary, carrying his burden of wood. And this brings us to the
second word: Cross. Jesus enters Jerusalem in order to die on the
Cross. And it is here that his kingship shines forth in godly fashion:
his royal throne is the wood of the Cross! I think of what Benedict XVI
said to the cardinals: "You are princes but of a Crucified
King"...Jesus says: "I am a King"; but his power is God's power which
confronts the world's evil and the sin that disfigures man's face.
Jesus takes upon himself the evil, the filth, the sin of the world,
including our own sin, and he cleanses it, he cleanses it with his
blood, with the mercy and the love of God.

Let us look around: how many wounds are inflicted upon humanity by
evil! Wars, violence, economic conflicts that hit the weakest, greed
for money, which no-one can bring with him, my grandmother would say,
no shroud has pockets! Greed for money, power, corruption, divisions,
crimes against human life and against creation! Dear friends, we can
all conquer the evil that is in us and in the world: with Christ, with
the force of good! Do we feel weak, inadequate, powerless? But God is
not looking for powerful means: it is through the Cross that he has
conquered evil! We must not believe the Evil One when he tells us: you
can do nothing to counter violence, corruption, injustice, your sins!
We must never grow accustomed to evil! ... And we must not be afraid of
sacrifice. Think of a mother or a father: what sacrifices they make!
But why? For love! And how do they bear those sacrifices? With joy,
because they are made for their loved ones. Christ's Cross embraced
with love does not lead to sadness, but to joy!

3. Today in this Square, there are many young people: for 28 years Palm
Sunday has been World Youth Day! This is our third word: youth! Dear
young people, I think of you celebrating around Jesus, waving your
olive branches. I think of you crying out his name and expressing your
joy at being with him! You have an important part in the celebration of
faith! You bring us the joy of faith and you tell us that we must live
the faith with a young heart, always, even at the age of seventy or
eighty.! A young heart! With Christ, the heart never grows old! Yet all
of us, all of you know very well that the King whom we follow and who
accompanies us is very special: he is a King who loves even to the
Cross and who teaches us to serve and to love. And you are not ashamed
of his Cross! On the contrary, you embrace it, because you have
understood that it is in giving ourselves that we have true joy and
that God has conquered evil through love. You carry the pilgrim Cross
through all the Continents, along the highways of the world! You carry
it in response to Jesus' call: "Go, make disciples of all nations" (Mt
28:19), which is the theme of World Youth Day this year. You carry it
so as to tell everyone that on the Cross Jesus knocked down the wall of
enmity that divides people and nations, and he brought reconciliation
and peace.

Dear friends, I too am setting out on a journey with you, from today,
in the footsteps of Blessed John Paul II and Benedict XVI. We are
already close to the next stage of this great pilgrimage of Christ's
Cross. I look forward joyfully to next July in Rio de Janeiro! I will
see you in that great city in Brazil! Prepare well - prepare
spiritually above all - in your communities, so that our gathering in
Rio may be a sign of faith for the whole world. Young people must tell
the world that it is good to follow Jesus, that it is good to love
Jesus and that it is good to go out to the preferies of the world and
follow Jesus! Three words: Joy, Cross and Youth.

Let us ask the intercession of the Virgin Mary. She teaches us the joy
of meeting Christ, the love with which we must look to the foot of the
Cross, the enthusiasm of the young heart with which we must follow him
during this Holy Week and throughout our lives. Amen.

