____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 16 January 2008 - Saint Augustine
of Hippo, part 2

[10]the painting 'Saint Augustin', by Philippe de Champaigne, c.1647,
oil on canvas, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles,
California

1. Today, like last Wednesday, I would like to talk about the
great Bishop of Hippo, Saint Augustine. He chose to appoint his
successor four years before he died. Thus, on 26 September 426, he
gathered the people in the Basilica of Peace at Hippo to present to the
faithful the one he had designated for this task. He said: "In this
life we are all mortal, and the day which shall be the last of life on
earth is to every man at all times uncertain; but in infancy there is
hope of entering boyhood... looking forward from boyhood to youth, from
youth to manhood and from manhood to old age; whether these hopes may
be realized or not is uncertain, but there is in each case something
which may be hoped for. But old age has no other period of this life to
look forward to with expectation: in any case, how long old age may be
prolonged is uncertain.... I came to this town - for such was the will
of God - when I was in the prime of life. I was young then, but now I
am old" (Ep 213, 1). At this point Augustine named the person he had
chosen as his successor, the presbyter Heraclius. The assembly burst
into an applause of approval, shouting 23 times, "To God be thanks! To
Christ be praise!". With other acclamations the faithful also approved
what Augustine proposed for his future: he wanted to dedicate the years
that were left to him to a more intense study of Sacred Scripture (cf.
Ep 213, 6).

Indeed, what followed were four years of extraordinary intellectual
activity: he brought important works to conclusion, he embarked on
others, equally demanding, held public debates with heretics - he was
always seeking dialogue - and intervened to foster peace in the African
provinces threatened by barbarian southern tribes. He wrote about this
to Count Darius, who had come to Africa to settle the disagreement
between Boniface and the imperial court which the tribes of Mauritania
were exploiting for their incursions: "It is a higher glory still", he
said in his letter, "to stay war itself with a word, than to slay men
with the sword, and to procure or maintain peace by peace, not by war.
For those who fight, if they are good men, doubtlessly seek peace;
nevertheless, it is through blood. Your mission, however, is to prevent
the shedding of blood" (Ep 229, 2). Unfortunately, the hope of
pacification in the African territories was disappointed; in May 429,
the Vandals, whom out of spite Boniface had invited to Africa, passed
the straits of Gibraltar and streamed into Mauritania. The invasion
rapidly reached the other rich African provinces. In May or June 430,
"the destroyers of the Roman Empire", as Possidius described these
barbarians (Vita, 30, 1), were surrounding and besieging Hippo.

Boniface had also sought refuge in the city. Having been reconciled
with the court too late, he was now trying in vain to block the
invaders' entry. Possidius, Augustine's biographer, describes
Augustine's sorrow: "More tears than usual were his bread, night and
day, and when he had reached the very end of his life, his old age
caused him, more than others, grief and mourning (Vita, 28, 6). And he
explains: "Indeed, that man of God saw the massacres and the
destruction of the city; houses in the countryside were pulled down and
the inhabitants killed by the enemy or put to flight and dispersed.
Private churches belonging to priests and ministers were demolished,
sacred virgins and Religious scattered on every side; some died under
torture, others were killed by the sword, still others taken prisoner,
losing the integrity of their soul and body and even their faith,
reduced by their enemies to a long, drawn-out and painful slavery"
(ibid., 28, 8).

Despite being old and weary, Augustine stood in the breach, comforting
himself and others with prayer and meditation on the mysterious designs
of Providence. In this regard, he spoke of the "old-age of the world" -
and this Roman world was truly old -, he spoke of this old age as years
earlier he had spoken to comfort the refugees from Italy when Alaric's
Goths had invaded the city of Rome in 410. In old age, he said,
ailments proliferate: coughs, catarrh, bleary eyes, anxiety and
exhaustion. Yet, if the world grows old, Christ is perpetually young;
hence, the invitation: "Do not refuse to be rejuvenated united to
Christ, even in the old world. He tells you: Do not fear, your youth
will be renewed like that of the eagle" (cf. Serm. 81, 8). Thus, the
Christian must not lose heart, even in difficult situations, but rather
he must spare no effort to help those in need. This is what the great
doctor suggested in his response to Honoratus, Bishop of Tiabe, who had
asked him whether a Bishop or a priest or any man of the Church with
the barbarians hot on his heels could flee to save his life: "When
danger is common to all, that is, for Bishops, clerics and lay people,
may those who need others not be abandoned by the people whom they
need. In this case, either let all depart together to safe places or
let those who must remain not be deserted by those through whom, in
things pertaining to the Church, their necessities must be provided
for; and so let them share life in common, or share in common that
which the Father of their family appoints them to suffer" (Ep 228, 2).
And he concluded: "Such conduct is especially the proof of love"
(ibid., 3). How can we fail to recognize in these words the heroic
message that so many priests down the centuries have welcomed and made
their own?

In the meantime, the city of Hippo resisted. Augustine's monastery-home
had opened its doors to welcome episcopal colleagues who were asking
for hospitality. Also of this number was Possidius, a former disciple
of Augustine; he was able to leave us his direct testimony of those
last dramatic days. "In the third month of that siege", Possidius
recounts, "Augustine took to his bed with a fever: it was his last
illness" (Vita, 29, 3). The holy old man made the most of that period
when he was at last free to dedicate himself with greater intensity to
prayer. He was in the habit of saying that no one, Bishop, Religious or
layman, however irreprehensible his conduct might seem, can face death
without adequate repentance. For this reason he ceaselessly repeated
between his tears, the penitential psalms he had so often recited with
his people (cf. ibid., 31, 2).

The worse his illness became, the more the dying Bishop felt the need
for solitude and prayer: "In order that no one might disturb him in his
recollection, about 10 days before leaving his body, he asked those of
us present not to let anyone into his room outside the hours in which
the doctors came to visit him or when his meals were brought. His
desire was minutely complied with and in all that time he devoted
himself to prayer" (ibid., 31, 3). He breathed his last on 28 August
430: his great heart rested at last in God.

"For the last rites of his body", Possidius informs us, "the sacrifice
in which we took part was offered to God and then he was buried" (Vita,
31, 5). His body on an unknown date was translated to Sardinia, and
from here, in about 725, to the Basilica of San Pietro in Ciel d'Oro in
Pavia, where it still rests today. His first biographer has this final
opinion of him: "He bequeathed to his Church a very numerous clergy and
also monasteries of men and women full of people who had taken vows of
chastity under the obedience of their superiors, as well as libraries
containing his books and discourses and those of other saints, from
which one learns what, through the grace of God, were his merits and
greatness in the Church, where the faithful always find him alive"
(Possidius, Vita, 31, 8). This is an opinion in which we can share. We
too "find him alive" in his writings. When I read Saint Augustine's
writings, I do not get the impression that he is a man who died more or
less 1,600 years ago; I feel he is like a man of today: a friend, a
contemporary who speaks to me, who speaks to us with his fresh and
timely faith. In Saint Augustine who talks to us, talks to me in his
writings, we see the everlasting timeliness of his faith; of the faith
that comes from Christ, the Eternal Incarnate Word, Son of God and Son
of Man. And we can see that this faith is not of the past although it
was preached yesterday; it is still timely today, for Christ is truly
yesterday, today and for ever. He is the Way, the Truth and the Life.
Thus, Saint Augustine encourages us to entrust ourselves to this
ever-living Christ and in this way find the path of life.

