____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 1 December 2010 - Blessed Julian of
Norwich

[10]Blessed Julian of Norwich I still remember with great joy the
Apostolic Journey I made in the United Kingdom last September. England
is a land that has given birth to a great many distinguished figures
who enhanced Church history with their testimony and their teaching.
One of them, venerated both in the Catholic Church and in the Anglican
Communion, is the mystic Julian of Norwich, of whom I wish to speak
this morning.

The -- very scant -- information on her life in our possession comes
mainly from her Revelations of Divine Love in Sixteen Showings, the
book in which this kindly and devout woman set down the content of her
visions.

It is known that she lived from 1342 until about 1430, turbulent years
both for the Church, torn by the schism that followed the Pope's return
to Rome from Avignon, and for the life of the people who were suffering
the consequences of a long drawn-out war between the Kingdoms of
England and of France. God, however, even in periods of tribulation,
does not cease to inspire figures such as Julian of Norwich, to recall
people to peace, love and joy.

As Julian herself recounts, in May 1373, most likely on the 13th of
that month, she was suddenly stricken with a very serious illness that
in three days seemed to be carrying her to the grave. After the priest,
who hastened to her bedside, had shown her the Crucified One not only
did Julian rapidly recover her health but she received the 16
revelations that she subsequently wrote down and commented on in her
book, Revelations of Divine Love.

And it was the Lord himself, 15 years after these extraordinary events,
who revealed to her the meaning of those visions.

"`Would you learn to see clearly your Lord's meaning in this thing?
Learn it well: Love was his meaning. Who showed it to you? Love.... Why
did he show it to you? For Love'.... Thus I was taught that Love was
our Lord's meaning" (Julian of Norwich, Revelations of Divine Love,
Chapter 86).

Inspired by divine love, Julian made a radical decision. Like an
ancient anchoress, she decided to live in a cell located near the
church called after Saint Julian, in the city of Norwich -- in her time
an important urban centre not far from London.

She may have taken the name of Julian precisely from that Saint to whom
was dedicated the church in whose vicinity she lived for so many years,
until her death.

This decision to live as a "recluse", the term in her day, might
surprise or even perplex us. But she was not the only one to make such
a choice. In those centuries a considerable number of women opted for
this form of life, adopting rules specially drawn up, for them, such as
the rule compiled by Saint Aelred of Rievaulx.

The anchoresses or "recluses", in their cells, devoted themselves to
prayer, meditation and study. In this way they developed a highly
refined human and religious sensitivity which earned them the
veneration of the people. Men and women of every age and condition in
need of advice and comfort, would devoutly seek them. It was not,
therefore, an individualistic choice; precisely with this closeness to
the Lord, Julian developed the ability to be a counsellor to a great
many people and to help those who were going through difficulties in
this life.

We also know that Julian too received frequent visitors, as is attested
by the autobiography of another fervent Christian of her time, Margery
Kempe, who went to Norwich in 1413 to receive advice on her spiritual
life. This is why, in her lifetime, Julian was called "Dame Julian", as
is engraved on the funeral monument that contains her remains. She had
become a mother to many.

Men and women who withdraw to live in God's company acquire by making
this decision a great sense of compassion for the suffering and
weakness of others. As friends of God, they have at their disposal a
wisdom that the world -- from which they have distanced themselves --
does not possess and they amiably share it with those who knock at
their door.

I therefore recall with admiration and gratitude the women and men's
cloistered monasteries. Today more than ever they are oases of peace
and hope, a precious treasure for the whole Church, especially since
they recall the primacy of God and the importance, for the journey of
faith, of constant and intense prayer.

It was precisely in the solitude infused with God that Julian of
Norwich wrote her Revelations of Divine Love. Two versions have come
down to us, one that is shorter, probably the older, and one that is
longer. This book contains a message of optimism based on the certainty
of being loved by God and of being protected by his Providence.

In this book we read the following wonderful words: "And I saw full
surely that ere God made us he loved us; which love was never lacking
nor ever shall be. And in this love he has made all his works; and in
this love he has made all things profitable to us; and in this love our
life is everlasting... in which love we have our beginning. And all
this shall we see in God, without end" (Revelations of Divine Love,
Chapter 86).

The theme of divine love recurs frequently in the visions of Julian of
Norwich who, with a certain daring, did not hesitate to compare them
also to motherly love. This is one of the most characteristic messages
of her mystical theology.

The tenderness, concern and gentleness of God's kindness to us are so
great that they remind us, pilgrims on earth, of a mother's love for
her children. In fact the biblical prophets also sometimes used this
language that calls to mind the tenderness, intensity and totality of
God's love, which is manifested in creation and in the whole history of
salvation that is crowned by the Incarnation of the Son.

God, however, always excels all human love, as the Prophet Isaiah says:
"Can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should have no
compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will
never forget you" (Is 49:15).

Julian of Norwich understood the central message for spiritual life:
God is love and it is only if one opens oneself to this love, totally
and with total trust, and lets it become one's sole guide in life, that
all things are transfigured, true peace and true joy found and one is
able to radiate it.

I would like to emphasize another point. The Catechism of the Catholic
Church cites the words of Julian of Norwich when it explains the
viewpoint of the Catholic faith on an argument that never ceases to be
a provocation to all believers (cf. nn. 304-313, 314).

If God is supremely good and wise, why do evil and the suffering of
innocents exist? And the Saints themselves asked this very question.
Illumined by faith, they give an answer that opens our hearts to trust
and hope: in the mysterious designs of Providence, God can draw a
greater good even from evil, as Julian of Norwich wrote: "Here I was
taught by the grace of God that I should steadfastly hold me in the
Faith ... and that ... I should take my stand on and earnestly believe
in ... that `all manner of thing shall be well"` (The Revelations of
Divine Love, Chapter 32).

Yes, dear brothers and sisters, God's promises are ever greater than
our expectations. If we present to God, to his immense love, the purest
and deepest desires of our heart, we shall never be disappointed. "And
all will be well", "all manner of things shall be well": this is the
final message that Julian of Norwich transmits to us and that I am also
proposing to you today. Many thanks.

