____________________

1. Pope Saint Gregory the Great - The Life of Our Most Holy Father Saint
Benedict

INTRODUCTION

THERE was a man of venerable life, Benedict by name and grace, who from
the time of his very childhood carried the heart of an old man. His
demeanour indeed surpassing his age, he gave himself no disport or
pleasure, but living here upon earth he despised the world with all the
glory thereof, at such time as he might have most freely enjoyed it. He
was born in the province of Nursia of honourable parentage and sent to
Rome to study the liberal sciences. But when he saw there many through
the uneven paths of vice run headlong to their own ruin, he drew back
his foot, but new-set in the world, lest, in the search of human
knowledge, he might also fall into the same dangerous precipice.
Contemning therefore learning and studies and abandoning his father's
house and goods, he desired only to please God in a virtuous life.
Therefore he departed skilfully ignorant and wisely unlearned. I have
not attained unto all this man did, but the few things which I here set
down, were related to me by four of his disciples; namely, Constantine,
a very reverend man, who succeeded him in the government of the
Monastery; Valentinian, who for many years bore rule in the Monastery
of Lateran, Simplicius, who was the third superior of that congregation
after him, and Honoratus who yet governeth the Monastery which he first
inhabited.

CHAPTER I

Benedict having now left the schools resolved to betake himself to the
desert, accompanied only by his nurse who most tenderly loved him.
Coming therefore to a place called Affile, and remaining for some time
in the Church of Saint Peter by the charitable Invitement of many
virtuous people who lived there for devotion, so it chanced that his
nurse borrowed of a neighbour a sieve to cleanse wheat, which being
left carelessly upon the table was found broken in two pieces.
Therefore on her return finding it broke, she began to weep bitterly
because it was only lent her. But the religious and pious boy,
Benedict, seeing his nurse lament was moved with compassion, and taking
with him the two pieces of the broken sieve, with tears he gave himself
to prayer, which no sooner ended, but he found the sieve whole, and
found not any sign that it had been broken. Them presently he restored
the sieve which had been broken, whole to his nurse, to her exceeding
comfort. This matter was divulged unto all that lived thereabout, and
so much admired by all, that the inhabitants of that place caused the
sieve to be hanged up in the Church porch, that not only those present,
but all posterity might know with how great gifts of grace Benedict had
been endowed from the beginning of his conversion. The sieve remained
to be seen for many years after, and hung over the Church door even
until the times of the Longobards.

But Benedict more desirous to suffer afflictions than covetous of
praise; and rather willing to undergo labours for the honour of God,
than to be extolled with the favours of this world, fled secretly from
his nurse to a remote place in the desert called Subiaco, distant about
forty miles from Rome, in which a fountain springing with cool and
crystal waters, extendeth itself at first into a broad lake, and
running farther with increase of waters becometh at the last a river.
As he was travelling to this place, a certain monk called Romanus met
him and asked whither he was going. Having understood his intention, he
both kept it secret and afforded him help, moreover he gave him a
religious habit and assisted him in all things. The man of God being
come to this place lived for the space of three years in an obscure
cave, unknown to any man except Romanus the Monk, who lived not far off
in a Monastery governed by Father Deodatus. But he would piously steal
forth, and on certain days bring to Benedict a loaf of bread which he
had spared from his own allowance. But there being no way to the cave
from Romanus his cell by reason of a steep and high rock which hung
over it, Romanus used to let down the loaf by a long cord to which also
he fastened a little bell, that by the sound of it, the man of God
might know when Romanus brought him the bread, and going out may
receive it. But the old enemy, envying the charity of the one and the
reflection of the other, when on a certain day he beheld the bread let
down in this manner, threw a stone and brake the bell. Notwithstanding,
Romanus afterwards failed not to assist him in the best manner he was
able. Now when it pleased Almighty God that Romanus should rest from
his labours, and that the life of Benedict should be manifest to the
world for an example to all men, that the candle wet upon a candlestick
might shine and give light to the whole Church of God, our Lord
vouchsafed to appear to a certain Priest living far off, who had make
ready his dinner for Easter Day, saying to him: "Thou hast prepared
good cheer for thyself, and My servant in such a place is famished for
hunger." Who presently rose up, and on the solemn day of Easter went
towards the place with such meat as he had provided for himself, where
seeking the man of God, amongst craggy rocks, winding valleys and
hollow pits he found him hid in a cave. Then after prayers, and
blessing the Almighty Lord, they sat down, and after some spiritual
discourse the Priest said: "Rise, and let us take our reflection, for
this is Easter Day." To whom the man of God answered: "I know it is
Easter, because I have found so much favour as to see thee." (For not
having a long time conversed with men, he did not know it was Easter
Day.) The good Priest did therefore again affirm it, saying: "Truly
this is the day of our Lord's Resurrection, and therefore it is not fit
that you should keep abstinence, and for this cause I am sent that we
may eat together that which Almighty God hath bestowed on us."
Whereupon blessing God, they fell to their meat. Their discourse and
dinner ended, the Priest returned to his Church.

About the same time certain shepherds found him hid in a cave; who, at
the first, spying him among the bushes, clothed in the skins of beasts,
took him for some wild beast, but afterwards knowing him to be a
servant of god, many of them were converted from their savage life to
virtue. By this means his name began to be famous in the country, and
many did resort unto him, bringing with them necessaries for his body,
while they received from his lips the food of life.

CHAPTER II

How he overcame a temptation of the flesh.

The holy man being on a certain day alone, the tempter was at hand; for
a little black bird, commonly called an ousel, began to fly about his
face, and that so near as the holy man, if he would. might have taken
it with his hand; but no sooner had he made the sign of the cross than
the bird vanished. When presently so great a carnal temptation assailed
him, that before the holy man had never felt the like. for the
remembrance of a woman which some time he had seen, was so lively
represented to his fancy by the wicked spirit, and so vehemently did
her image inflame his breast with lustful desires, that almost overcome
by pleasure, he was determining to leave the wilderness. But suddenly
assisted with divine grace he came to himself, and, seeing near him a
thicket full of nettles and briars, he threw off his garments and cast
himself naked into the midst of those sharp thorns and nettles, where
he rolled himself so long, that, when he rose up, all his body was
pitifully rent; thus by the wounds of his flesh he cured those of his
soul, by turning pleasure into pain; and by the vehemence of outward
torments he extinguished the unlawful flame which burnt within
overcoming sin by changing the fire. After which time, as he himself
related to his disciples, he was so free from the like temptation, that
he never felt any such motion.

Many after this began to forsake the world and to hasten to put
themselves under his government. Being now altogether free from vice,
he worthily deserved to be made a master of virtue. As it is commanded
by Moses that the Levites should serve from five and twenty years and
upward, and after fifty years they should be appointed to keep the holy
vessels.

PETER

I have already understood something of this testimony alleged, yet I
pray make it more plain unto me.

GREGORY

It is manifest, Peter, that in youth the temptations of the flesh are
great, but after fifty natural heat waxeth cold: now the souls of good
men are the holy vessels. Therefore while the elect are in temptation,
it is necessary that they live under obedience, and be wearied with
labours, but when, by reason of their age, the fervour of temptations
is assuaged, they are ordained keepers of holy vessels, that is become
instructors of souls.

PETER

I confess what you say has given me full satisfaction, and therefore
this place of Scripture being clearly expounded, I pray you hasten on
with the holy man's life which you have begun.

CHAPTER III

How Saint Benedict brake a glass by the sign of the cross.

Having thus vanquished this temptation, the man of God like a good soil
well manured and weeded, brought forth abundant fruit of the seed of
virtue, so that his fame began to spread itself more largely. Not far
off was a Monastery, whose Abbot being dead, the whole Convent repaired
to the venerable man Benedict, and with earnest persuasions requested
him for their Abbot, which he refused for a long time, forewarning them
that his manner of life and theirs were not agreeable; yet at length
overcome with importunity he gave consent. But when in the same
Monastery he began to observe regular discipline, so that none of the
Monks (as in former time) were permitted by their disorder to swerve
any way form the path of virtue, which receiving they fell into a great
rage, and began accusing themselves of their choice in receiving him
for a Superior, whose integrity of life was disproportionate to their
perverseness.

And therefore, when they perceived themselves restrained from unlawful
acts, it grieved them to leave their desires, and hard it was to
relinquish old customs and begin a new life, besides the conversation
of good men is always odious to the wicked, they began therefore to
plot his death, and after consultation had together, they poisoned his
wine. So when the glass which contained the empoisoned drink was,
according to the custom of the Monastery, presented at table to be
blessed by the Abbot, Benedict putting forth his hand and making the
sign of the Cross, the glass which was held far off brake in pieces, as
if instead of blessing the vase of death, he had thrown a stone against
it. By this the man of God perceived that the glass had in it the drink
of death which could not endure the sign of life. So presently rising
up with a mild countenance and tranquil mind, having called the
Brethren together, he thus spake unto them: "Almighty God of His mercy
forgive you, Brethren, why have you dealt thus with me? Did not I
foretell you that my manner of life and yours would not agree? Go, and
seek a Superior to your liking; for you can have me no longer with
you." This said, he forthwith returned to the solitude he loved s well,
and lived there with himself, in the sight of Him who seeth all things.

PETER

I do not well understand what you mean: "He lived with himself."

GREGORY

If the holy man had been longer constrained to govern those who had
unanimously conspired against him, and were so contrary to him in life
and manners, it might, peradventure, have diminished his own vigour and
fervour of devotion, withdrawing his mind from the light of
contemplation. So that over much busied in correcting the faults of
others, he might have neglected his own; and so perhaps lost himself,
and yet not gained others. For as often as by contagious motions we are
transported out of ourselves we remain the same, but not with
ourselves, because not looking into our own actions, we are wandering
about other things. For do we think that he was with himself who went
into a far country, consumed the portion allotted to him, and, after he
had put hims4elf into the service of a citizen of that country, kept
his hogs, and was glad to eat the husks which they are:
notwithstanding, when he began to consider what he had lost, as the
Scripture testifieth: "Being come to himself, he said: how many
hirelings in my father's house have plenty of bread." If, therefore, he
were before with himself, how was it true that he returned to himself?

I may well say, therefore, that his holy man lived with himself,
because he never turned the eye of his soul from himself, but standing
always on his guard with great circumspection, he kept himself
continually in the all-seeing eye of his Creator.

PETER

How is it then to be understood, which is written of the Apostle Peter,
when he was led by the Angel out of the prison? Who returning to
himself said: "Now I know assuredly that the Lord hath sent his Angel,
and hath delivered me out of the hands of Herod, and from all the
expectation of the people of the Jews."

GREGORY

Two ways, Peter, we are carried out of ourselves: for either by
sinfulness of thought we fall beneath ourselves, or by the grace of
contemplation we are raised above ourselves. He therefore, that kept
the hogs, by his inconstancy of mind and uncleanness, fell beneath
himself: but he, whom the Angel loosed and ravished into an ecstasy,
was indeed out of himself, but yet above himself. But both of them
returned to themselves, the one when, reclaiming his lewd life, he was
converted at heart, the other when from the height of contemplation, he
returned to his natural and ordinary understanding. Thus venerable
Benedict in that solitude dwelt with himself, for as much as he kept
himself within his thoughts: for as often as by the fervour of
contemplation he was elevated, without doubt he left himself as it were
beneath himself.

PETER

I like well this you say but resolve me, I pray you, should he have
left those Monks of whom he had once taken charge?

GREGORY

In my opinion, Peter, a bad community may be tolerated where there are
found at least some good which may be helped. But where there is no
benefit to be expected of any good, labour is many times lost upon the
bad. Especially if there be any present occasions wherein we may do God
better service. Now whom was there whom the holy man should have stayed
to govern, when they had all conspired against him? And many things are
considered by the soul of the perfect which ought not to be passed in
silence, for they, perceiving their endeavours to be without effect,
depart to some other place, there to employ themselves more profitably.
Wherefore that famous preacher who desired to be dissolved and to be
with Christ, unto whom to live is Christ, and to die is gain, did not
only desire himself to suffer, but did also animate others to do the
like. He being persecuted at Damascus, caused himself to be let down
from the wall by a cord and basket whereby he escaped privately. Shall
we say then that Paul feared death which he earnestly desired for the
love of Christ, as appeareth by his own testimony? But as he foresaw
that his endeavours there would profit little, with much difficulty he
reserved himself to labour in another place with better success. For
this valiant champion of God would not be confined to so narrow limits,
but sought battles in the open field. So you may observe that the
venerable Benedict, left not so many incorrigible in that place as he
converted to a spiritual life elsewhere.

PETER

You say true, as both reason and the example alleged prove, but I pray
return to prosecute the life of this holy Father.

GREGORY

The holy man for many years in that desert increased wonderfully in
virtues and miracles, whereby a great number in those parts were
gathered together in the service of Almighty God: so that, by the
assistance of our Lord Jesus Christ, he built there twelve monasteries,
in each of which he put twelve Monks with their superiors, and retained
a few with himself whom he thought to instruct further.

Now began divers noble and devout personages from Rome to resort to
him, and commended their children to be brought up by him in the
service of Almighty God. At the same time, Equitius brought unto him
Maurus, and Tertullus a Senator his son Placidus, both very hopeful
children, of which two, Maurus, although young, yet by reason of his
forwardness in the school of virtue, began to assist his master, but
Placidus was as yet a child of tender years.

CHAPTER IV

How he reclaimed an indevout Monk.

In one of those Monasteries which he had built thereabout, was a
certain Monk that could not stay at his prayers, but, so soon as he saw
his brethren kneel and dispose themselves for their mental prayer, he
would go out, and there spend his wandering thoughts upon worldly and
transitory things. For which, having been often admonished by his
Abbot, he was brought before the man of God, who also sharply
reprehended him for his folly; but, returning to his Monastery, he
scarce remembered two days what the man of God had said to him, for the
third day he fell to his old custom, and at the time of prayer went out
again: whereof when the servant of God was informed by the Abbot the
second time, he said: "I will come myself and reform him." And when he
was come to the same Monastery, and the Brethren after the Psalms
ended, at the accustomed time betook themselves to prayer, he perceived
a little black boy, who pulled this Monk (who could not remain at his
prayers) out by the hem of his garment. This he insinuated secretly to
Pompeianus Abbot of the Monastery, and to Maurus: "See you hot there
who it is that draweth this Monk out?" Who answered, "No." "Let us
pray", replied he, "that you may likewise see whom this Monk
followeth." After prayer continued for two days, Maurus the monk saw,
but Pompeianus the Abbot of the Monastery could not perceive anything.
The next day when the man of God had finished his prayer he went out of
the Oratory, and found the Monk standing without, whom he forthwith
strake with a wand, and from that time ever after the Monk was free
form the wicked suggestion of the black boy, and remained constant at
his prayers. For the old enemy, as if himself had been beaten with the
whip, dared no more to take command of his thoughts.

CHAPTER V

How by the prayer of the man of God a spring issued from the top of a
mountain.

Three of the Monasteries, which he founded in that place, were built
upon the cliffs of a mountain, which was very troublesome to the Monks
always to be forced to descend to the lake to fetch up their water,
for, on account of the steepness of the mountain side, it was very
difficult and dangerous to descend. Hereupon the Brethren of these
three Monasteries came together to the servant of God Benedict saying:
"It is very troublesome to us to have daily to go down for water as far
as the lake, and therefore the Monasteries must of necessity be removed
to some more commodious place." He dismissed them with comfortable
words, and at night with little Placidus, whom we mentioned before,
went up to the rock and there prayed a long time. Having ended his
prayers, he put three stones for a mark in the same place, and so
unknown to all he returned to his Monastery. Next day, when the
Brethren came again to him for want of water he said: "Go, and on the
rock where you shall find three stones one upon another, dig a little,
for Almighty God is able to make water spring from the top of that
mountain, that you may be eased of this labour." When they had made a
hollow in that place, it was immediately filled with water, which
issueth forth so plentifully that to this day it continueth running
down to the floor of the mountain.

CHAPTER VI

How the iron head of a bill from the bottom of the water returned to
the handle again.

At another time, a certain Goth poor of spirit, desirous to lead a
religious life, repaired to the man of god, Benedict, who most
willingly received him. One day he ordered a bill to be given to him to
cut up brambles in a place which he intended for a garden. This place,
which the Goth had undertaken to accommodate, was over the lake's side.
While the Goth laboured amain in the cutting up the thick briars, the
iron, slipping out of the handle, fell into the lake in a place so
deep, that there was no hope to recover it. The Goth, having lost his
bill, ran trembling to the Monk Maurus, and told him the mischance,
confessing his fault penitently, who presently advertised Benedict the
servant of God thereof. Immediately the man of God came himself to the
lake, took the haft out of the Goth's hand, and case it into the lake,
when, behold, the iron rose up from the bottom and entered into the
haft as before. Which he there rendered to the Goth saying: "Behold!
work on and be not discomforted."

CHAPTER VII

How his disciple Maurus walked on the water.

One day as venerable Benedict was in his cell, the aforesaid young
Placidus, a Monk of the holy man, went out to the lake to fetch water,
and letting down the bucket to take up water, by chance fell in himself
after it, and was presently carried away by the stream, a bow's shoot
from the side. This accident was at the same time revealed to the man
of God in his cell, who quickly called Maurus, saying: "Run, brother
Maurus, for the child who went to fetch water is fallen into the lake,
and the stream hath carried him a great way." A wonderful thing and not
heard of since the time of Peter the Apostle! Maurus having asked and
received his benediction, upon the command of his Superior went forth
in haste, and, being come to the place to which the child was driven by
the stream, thinking still he went upon the dry land he ran upon the
water, rook him by the hair of the head, and returned speedily back. No
sooner had he foot upon firm ground but he came to himself, and
perceiving that he had gone upon the water, much astonished, he
wondered how he had done that which wittingly he durst not adventure.
So, returning to his Superior, he related what had happened, which the
venerable man Benedict ascribed to Maurus his prompt obedience, and not
to his own merits; but contrariwise Maurus attributed it wholly to his
command, not imputing any virtue to himself in that which he had done
unwittingly. This humble and charitable contention, the child who was
saved, was to decide, for he said: "When I was drawn out of the water,
methought I saw my Abbot's garments over my head and imagined that he
had drawn me out."

PETER

These are wonderful things you report, and may be to the edification of
many: for my own part, the more I drink of this good man's miracles,
the more I thirst.

CHAPTER VIII

Of the poisoned loaf which the crow carried away.

When, as now, the places far and wide were very zealous in the love of
our Lord God Jesus Christ, many abandoning the vanities of the world
and putting themselves under the sweet yoke of our Redeemer; as it is
the custom of the wicked to repine at the virtues of others, which
themselves desire not to follow, one Florentius, the Priest of a Church
hard by, and grandfather to Florentius our subdeacon, began by the
instigation of the devil to be envious of the virtuous proceedings of
the holy man, to derogate from his course of living hindering also as
many as he could from resorting to him. But seeing that he could not
stop his progress, the fame of his virtues still more increasing, and
many upon the report of his sanctity reforming their lives daily, he
became more and more envious, and constantly grew worse, for he desired
himself the commendations of Benedict's life, but would not live
commendably. Thus, blinded with envy, he sent to the servant of
Almighty God a poisoned loaf for an offering, which the man of God
received thankfully, although he was not ignorant of the poison in it.
There used to come to him at the time of dinner a crow from the next
forest, which took bread from his hand. Coming therefore, as she was
wont, the man of God case before her the bread that the Priest had sent
him, saying: "In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ take this bread and
cast it in some place where no man may find it." The crow, gaping and
spreading her wings, run croaking about it, as though she would have
said, I would willingly fulfil thy command, but I am not able. The man
of God commanded again saying: "Take it up, take it up, and cast it
where no man may find it." So at length the crow took it up in her beak
and flew away with it and three hours after returned again to receive
from his hand her ordinary allowance. But the venerable Father, seeing
the Priest so perversely bent to seek his life, was more sorry for him
than grieved for himself. When the aforesaid Florentius saw that he
could not kill the body of his master, he attempted what he could
against the souls of his disciples, in so much that he sent seven naked
girls into the garden of the Cloister where Benedict lived, that so
playing for a long time hand in hand, they might entice their souls to
naughtiness, which when the holy man espied out of his cell, to prevent
the fall of his younger disciples, and considering that all this was
done only for the persecuting of himself, he gave place to envy, and
after he had disposed of the Oratories and other buildings, leaving in
them a competent number of Brethren with Superiors, he took with him a
few monks and removed to another place. Thus the man of God with
humility avoided his hatred, whom Almighty God struck with a terrible
judgment: for when the aforesaid Priest, standing in his summer house,
heard to his great joy, that Benedict was gone, the room wherein he was
fell down and crushed and killed the enemy of Benedict, al the rest of
the house remaining immovable. This Maurus, the disciple of the man of
God, thought fit to signify forthwith to the venerable Father Benedict,
who was yet scarce gone ten miles saying: "Return for the Priest that
did persecute you is slain." Which the man of God hearing took very
heavily, both because his enemy was dead and because his disciple
rejoiced thereat. Whereupon he enjoined him a penance for presuming in
a joyful manner to bring such news to him.

PETER

These are wonderful strange things which thou sayest. For in the
drawing water our of a rock methinks I behold in him Moses; in raising
the iron from the bottom of the water he representeth Eslieus; in
walking on the water Peter; in the obedience of the crow I conceive him
another Elias; in bewailing his enemy's death I see David. In my
opinion, this man was filled with the spirit of all the just.

GREGORY

The man of God, Benedict, had in him, Peter, the spirit of god alone,
which by the grace of free redemption replenished the hearts of all the
elect, of which Saint John saith: "There was true light which
Illuminateth every man that cometh into this world." Of which again it
is written: "Of his plentitude and fulness we have all received." For
the holy ones of God could indeed receive graces from God, but they
could not impart them to others. He then gave signs of power to the
lowly, who promised that He would shew the miracle of Jonas to His
enemies, deigning in their sight to die, and in the sight of the humble
to arise. So that the one should have what they would contemn, and the
other what reverence and love. By which mystery it came to pass, that
while the proud were spectators of His ignominious death, the humble
contrariwise, against death, lay hold of the power of His glory.

PETER

But declare, I pray, whither the holy man removed or if he wrought
miracles in any other place?

GREGORY

The holy man by removing changed his habitation, but nor his adversary.
For afterwards he endured so much the more grievous battles, by how
much he had now the master of wicked ness fighting openly against him.
The castle called Casino is situated upon the side of a high mountain,
which containeth as it were, in the lap thereof, the same castle, and
riseth into the air three miles high so that the top seemeth to touch
the very heavens: on this stood an old temple where Apollo was
worshipped by the foolish country people, according to the custom of
the ancient heathens. Round about it, likewise, grew groves, in which
even until that time, the mad multitude of infidels offered their
idolatrous sacrifices. The man of God coming to that place brake down
the idol, overthrew the altar, burnt the groves, and, of the temple of
Apollo, made a chapel to Saint Martin, and, where the profane altar had
stood, he built a chapel of Saint John; and, by continual preaching,
converted many of the people thereabout. But the old enemy not bearing
this silently, did present himself, not covertly or in a dream but
openly and visibly in the sight of the Father, and with great cries
complained of the violence he suffered, in so much that the brethren
heard him though they could see nothing. For, as the venerable Father
told his disciples, the wicked fiend represented himself to his sight
all on fire, and, with flaming mouth and flashing eyes, seemed to rage
against him. And, then, they all heard what he said, for, first, he
called him by his name, and, when the man of God would make him no
answer, he fell to reviling him. And whereas before he cried:
"Benedict, Benedict," and saw he could get no answer, then he cried:
"Maledict, nor Benedict, what hast thou to do with me, and why dost
thou persecute me?" But now we shall behold new assaults of the old
enemy against the servant of God, against whom willingly did he make
war, but against his will did he give him occasions of many victories.

CHAPTER IX

How the man of God by his prayer, removed a huge stone.

One day, as the brethren were building the cells of the Cloister, there
lay a stone in the midst which they determined to lift up and put into
the building. When tow or three were not able to move it, they set more
to it, but it remained as immoveable as if it had been held by roots to
the ground, so that it was easy to conceive that the old enemy sat upon
it, since that so many men were not able to lift it. After much labour
in vain, they sent to the man of God to help them with his prayers to
drive away the enemy, who presently came, and having first prayed, he
gave his blessing, when behold the stone was as easily lifted as if it
had not weight at all.

CHAPTER X

Of the fantastical fire which burned the kitchen.

Then the man of God thought good that they should dig in that place.
When they had entered a good deepness, the Brethren found a brazen
idol, which happening for the present to be cast in the kitchen,
suddenly there seemed a flame to rise out of it, and, to the sight of
all the Monks it appeared that all the kitchen was on fire. As they
were casting on water to quench this fire, the man of God, hearing the
tumult, came, and perceiving that there appeared fire in the eyes of
the Brethren and not in his, he forthwith bowed his head in prayer, and
calling upon those whom he saw deluded with an imaginary fire, he bade
them sign their eyes that they might behold the kitchen entire, and not
those fantastical flames which the enemy had counterfeited.

CHAPTER XI

How a boy crushed by the fall of a wall was healed by the servant of
God.

Again, when the Brethren were raising the wall a little higher for more
convenience, the man of God was at his devotions in his cell, to whom
the old enemy appeared in an insulting manner and told him he was going
to his Brethren at work; the man of God straightway by a messenger
advertized the Brethren thereof saying: "Brethren, have a care of
yourselves, for the wicked spirit at this hour is coming to molest
you." Scarce had the messenger told his errand when the malignant
spirit overthrew the wall that was abuilding, and with the fall thereof
crushed a young monk, son to a certain Senator. Hereat all of them much
grieved and discomforted, not for the loss of the wall but for the harm
to their brother, brought the heavy tidings to their venerable Father
Benedict, who bid them bring the boy to him, who could not be carried
but in a sheet, by reason that not only his body was bruised but also
his bones crushed with the fall. Then the man of God willed them to lay
him in his cell upon his mat where he used to pray; so causing the
Brethren to go out he shut the door, and with more than ordinary
devotion fell to his prayers. A wonder to hear, the very same hour he
sent him to his work again, whole and sound as ever he was before, to
help his Brethren in making up the wall; whereas the old enemy hoped to
have had occasion to insult over Benedict for his death.

CHAPTER XII

Of Monks who had eaten our of their monastery.

Now began the man of God, by the spirit of prophecy, to foretell things
to come, and to certify those that were present with him of things that
passed far off. It was the custom of the Monastery that the Brethren,
sent abroad about any business, should neither eat nor drink anything
outside their Cloister. This in the practice of the Rule being
carefully observed, one day some Brethren upon occasion went abroad,
and were forced to stay later than usual, so they rested and refreshed
themselves in the house of a certain devout woman of their
acquaintance. Returning late to the Monastery, they asked, as was the
custom, the Abbot's blessing, of whom he straightway demanded, saying:
"Where dined you?" they answered: "Nowhere." To whom he said: "Why do
you lie? Did you not go into such a woman's house? Eat you not there
such and such meats? Drank you not so many cups?" When the venerable
Father had told them both the woman's lodging, the several sorts of
meats, with the number of their draughts, they, in great terror fell
down at his feet, and with acknowledgment of all that they had done
confessed their fault. But he straightway pardoned them, persuading
himself they would never afterwards attempt the like in his absence
knowing he was always present with them in spirit.

CHAPTER XIII

How he reproved the brother of Valentinian the Monk for eating by the
way.

Moreover, the brother of Valentinian, the Monk, whom we mentioned in
the beginning, was very devout although but a secular; and he used to
go to the Monastery from his dwelling once every year and that fasting,
that he might partake of the prayers of the servant of God, and see his
brother. As he was on his way to the Monastery, another traveller, who
carried meat with him, put himself into his company After they had
travelled a good while, he said to him: "Come, Brother, let us refresh
ourselves, lest we faint by the way." "God forbid!" answered the other,
"by no means, Brother, for my custom is always to go to the venerable
Father Benedict fasting." At which answer, his fellow-traveller, for
the present, said no more; but, when they had gone a little further, he
moved him again to ear, but e would not consent because he resolved to
keep his fast. So the other was awhile silent, and went forward with
him without taking any thing himself. After they had gone a great way,
wearied with long travel, in their way they came to a meadow and a
spring, with what else might delight them, there to take their repast.
Then said his fellow-traveller: "So! Here is water, here is a meadow,
here is a pleasant place for us to refresh and rest us awhile, that we
may safely make an end of our journey." So, at the third motion, these
words pleasing his ear and the place his eye, he was overcome,
consented and ate. In the evening he came to the Monastery, where,
conducted to the venerable Father Benedict, he craved his prayers, but
soon the holy man reproved him for what he had done in the way, saying:
"What was it, Brother, the malignant enemy suggested to thee by they
fellow traveller? The first time he could not persuade nor yet the
second, but the third time he prevailed and obtained his desire." Then
the man acknowledging his fault fell at his feet, and began all the
more to weep and to be ashamed, by reason that he perceived he had
offended, although absent, in the sight of Father Benedict.

PETER

I discover in the breast of the holy man the spirit of Eliseus, who was
present with his disciple though far from him.

CHAPTER XIV

How he discovered the dissimulation of King Totila.

GREGORY

You must, Peter, for a little while be silent, that you may know
matters far more important. For, in the time of the Goths, their king,
informed that the holy man had the gift of prophecy, went towards his
Monastery and made some stay a little way off, and gave notice of his
coming. To whom answer was made from the Monastery that he might come
at his pleasure. The king, being of a treacherous nature, attempted to
try whether the man of God had the spirit of prophecy. There was one of
his guards called Riggo, upon whom he caused his own buskins to be put
and so commanded him taking on him the king's person to go forward to
the man of God, three of his chief pages attending upon him, to wit
Vulderic, Ruderic and Blindin, to the end they should wait upon him in
the presence of the servant of God, that so, by reason of his
attendants and purple robes, he might be taken for the king. When the
said Riggo, with his brave apparel and attendance, entered the cloister
the man of god sat a little distance off, and seeing him come so nigh
as he might hear him, he cried to him, saying: "Put of, son, put off
that which thou carriest, for it is not thine." Riggo straightway fell
to the ground and was much afraid, for having presumed to delude so
holy a man; all his followers likewise fell down astonished, and
rising, they durst not approach unto him, but returned to their king,
and trembling related unto him how soon they were discovered.

CHAPTER XV

How he prophesied to king Totila and to the Bishop of Canosa.

Then Totila came himself to the man of God, whom as soon as he saw
sitting afar off, he durst not come nigh, but fell prostrate to the
ground. The holy man twice of three bade him rise, but he durst not get
up, then Benedict, the servant of Jesus Christ our Lord, deigned
himself to come to the prostrate king, whom, raising from the ground,
he rebuked for his deeds, and foretold in a few words all that should
befall him saying: "Much evil dost thou do, and much wickedness hast
thou done, as least now give over thy iniquity. Into Rome shalt thou
enter, thou wilt cross over the sea, nine years shalt thou reign, and
die the tenth," At the hearing whereof, the king sore appalled, craved
his prayers and departed, but from that time he was less cruel. Not
long after he went to Rome, sailed thence to Sicily, and in the tenth
year of his reign, by the judgment of Almighty God, lost both crown and
life.

Moreover, the Bishop of the Church of Canosa used to come to the
servant of God, who much loved him for his virtuous life. He,
therefore, conferring with him concerning the coming of king Totila and
the taking of the City of Tome, said; "The city doubtless will be
destroyed by this king, so that it will never more be inhabited." To
whom the man of God replied: "Rome shall never be destroyed by the
Pagans, but shall be so shaken by tempests, lightnings and earthquakes
that it will decay of itself." The mysteries of which prophecy we now
behold as clear as day, for, in this city, we see the walls ruined,
houses overturned, churches destroyed by tempuesuous winds, and
building rotten with old age decay and falling into ruins, Although
Honoratus, his disciple, from whose relation I had it told me he heard
it not himself from his own mouth by was told it by the Brethren.

CHAPTER XVI

How venerable Benedict dispossessed a certain clerk from the Devil.

At that time one of the clergy of the church of Aquin was molested with
an evil spirit, whom the venerable man, Constantius, Bishop of that
Diocese, had sent to divers martyrs' shrines to be cured; but the holy
martyrs would not cure him, that the gifts of grace in Benedict might
be mad manifest. He was therefore brought to he servant of Almighty
God, Benedict, who, by pouring forth prayers to our Lord Jesus Christ,
presently drove out the enemy. Having cured him, he commanded him,
saying: "Go! And hereafter never eat flesh, and presume not to take
Holy Orders, for what time soever you shall presume to take Holy
Orders, you shall again become a slave to the devil." The Clerk
therefore went his way healed, and as present punishments make deep
impressions, he carefully for a while observed the man of God's
command. But when, after many years, all his seniors were dead and he
saw his juniors preferred before him in Holy Orders, he neglected the
words of the man of God, as though forgotten through length of time,
and took upon him Holy Orders; whereupon, presently, the devil, who
before had left him, took power of him, and never ceased to torment him
till he severed his soul from his body.

PETER

This holy man, I perceive, understood the secret decrees of God, in
that he knew this Clerk to be delivered to the power of the devil, lest
he should presume to receive Holy Orders.

GREGORY

Why should not he know the secret decrees of Divine Providence, who
dept the commandments of god, wince it is written that "he who adhereth
to God is one spirit with Him."

PETER

If he who adhereth to our Lord become one spirit with Him, how comes
the same excellent Preacher to say: "Who hath known the mind of the
Lord, or who has been His counsellor?" For it seem altogether unlikely
that he, who is made one with another, should not know his mind.

GREGORY

Holy men, so far as they are united with God, are not ignorant of His
meaning, for the same Apostle saith; "For what man knoweth the tings of
a man, but the spirit of a man that is in him? So the things also, that
are of God, no man knoweth but the spirit of God." And to shew that he
knew things of God, he addeth; "But we have not received the spirit of
this world, but the spirit which is of God." And again: "That eye hath
not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it ascended into the heart of
man, what things God hath prepared for those that love Him, but to us
God hath revealed by His spirit."

PETER

If then those things which appertained to God were revealed to the said
Apostle by the spirit of God, what meaneth he to make this preamble,
saying: "O the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God;
how incomprehensible are his judgments and His says unsearchable." But
as I am saying this, another question arises: for the Prophet David
says to our Lord; "With my lips I have uttered all the judgments of Thy
mouth." And, whereas, it is less to comprehend or know than to
pronounce, what is the reason that Saint Paul should affirm the
judgments of God to be incomprehensible, while David professeth not
only to know them but also to pronounce them with his lips?

GREGORY

To both these difficulties ‚EUR" I briefly answered before, when I
said: that holy men, as far as they are one with god, are not ignorant
of the mind of our Lord, for all such as do devoutly follow the Lord
are also by devotion one with God; and yet, in that they are laden with
the burden of this corruptible flesh, they are not with God. Therefore,
for as much as they are untied with God they know His secret judgments,
of which likewise they are ignorant for as much as in respect separated
form Him: and so they pronounce His judgments incomprehensible which
they cannot as yet thoroughly understand. But they who in spirit adhere
to Him, in this adhesion know His judgments, either by the sacred words
of Scripture, or by hidden revelations, as far as they are capable;
these therefore they know and declare, but they are ignorant of those
which God concealeth. Whereupon the prophet David when he had said: "In
my lips I will pronounce all Thy judgments," as if he had said plainly:
"Those judgments I could both know and pronounce with Thou didst tell
me, for those which Thou speakest not, without doubt Thou concealest
from our knowledge. Thus, the saying of the Prophet agreeth with that
of the Apostle, for the judgment of God are both incomprehensible, and
yet those which proceed from His mouth are uttered with the lips of
men, for being so manifested by God they may be conceived by men, nor
can they be concealed.

PETER

By occasion of the difficulty I propounded, I have obtained a clear
solution. But if there remain aught concerning the virtue of this man,
I pray you declare it.

CHAPTER XVII

How he prophecied the destruction of his Monastery.

A certain nobleman, named Theoprobus, was by the admonition of Father
Benedict converted, and for the merit of his life was very familiar and
intimate with him. He one day entered into the cell of the man of God,
found him weeping bitterly; when he had waited a good while and saw he
did not give over, (though it was his custom in prayer mildly to weep
and not to use any doleful lamentations) he boldly demanded of him the
cause of so great grief. To whom the man of God presently replied: "All
this Monastery which I have built, with whatsoever I have prepared for
my Brethren, are, by the judgment of almighty God, delivered over to
the heather; and I could scarce obtain to save the lives of those in
this place. His words Theoprobus heard, but we see them verified in the
destruction of his Monastery by the Longobards. For of late these
Lombards, by night, when the Brethren were are rest, entered the
Monastery and ransacked all, yet had not the power to lay hand on any
man. But Almighty God fulfilled what he had promised to His faithful
servant, Benedict, that although he gave their goods into the hands of
the Paynims, yet he preserved their lives. In this Benedict did most
clearly resemble Saint Paul, whose ship with all its goods being lost,
yet, for his comfort, he had the lives of all that were in his company
bestowed upon him.

CHAPTER XVIII

How Saint Benedict discovered the hiding of a flagon of wine.

Our monk Exhilaratus, whom you know well, on a time was sent by his
master with two wooden vessels (which we call flagons) full of wine, to
the man of god in his Monastery. He brought one but hid the other in
the way, notwithstanding, the man of God, although he was not ignorant
of anything done in his absence, received it thankfully, and advised
the boy as he was returning back, in this manner: "Take care, son, thou
drink not of that flagon which thou hast hid, but turn the mouth of it
downward and then thou wilt perceive what is in it." He departed from
the holy man much ashamed, and desirous to make further trial of what
he had heard, held the flagon downwards, and presently there came forth
a snake, at which the boy was sore affrighted and terrified for the
evil he had committed.

CHAPTER XIX

How the man of god reproved a Monk for receiving certain napkins.

Not far distant from the monastery was a certain town in which no small
number of people, by the exhortations of Benedict, were converted form
the worship of idols to the faith of God. In that place were certain
religious women, and the servant of God, Benedict, used to send often
some of his Brethren thither to instruct and edify their souls. One
day, as his custom was, he appointed one to go; but the Monk who was
sent, after his exhortation, by the entreaty of the Nuns, took some
small napkins and hid them in his bosom, As soon as he came back, the
man of God began very sharply to rebuke him, saying; "How hath iniquity
entered thy breast?" The Monk was amazed, and because he had forgotten
what he had done, he wondered why he was so reprehended. To whom the
holy Father said: "What! Was not I present when thou tookest the
napkins of the handmaids of God and didst put them in thy bosom?"
Whereupon he presently fell at his feet, and repenting of his folly
threw away the napkins which he had hid in his bosom.

CHAPTER XX

How the man of God understood the proud thought of one of his Monks.

One day as the venerable Father late in the evening was at his repast,
it happened that one of his Monks, the son of a lawyer, held the candle
to him; and whilst the man of God was eating, he standing in that
manner, began by the suggestion of pride to say within himself, "Who is
he whom I should wait upon at table, or hold the candle unto with such
attendance? Who am I who should serve him?" To whom the man of God
presently turning, checked him sharply saying: "Sign thy breast,
Brother, what is this you say? Sign thy breast." Then he forthwith
called upon the Brethren and willed them to take the candle out of his
hand, and bade him for that time to leave his attendance and sit down
quietly by him. The Monk being asked afterward of the Brethren
concerning his thoughts at that time, fold them how he was puffed up
with a spirit of pride, and what he spake against the man of god
secretly in his own heart. By this it was easily to be perceived that
nothing could be kept from the knowledge of venerable Benedict, in
whose ears the words of unspoken thoughts resounded.

CHAPTER XXI

Of two hundred measured of meal found before the man of God's cell.

At another time also in the country of Campania began a great famine,
and all people suffered from great scarcity of food, so that all the
wheat in Benedict his Monastery was spent, and likewise almost all the
bread, so that but five loaves remained for the Brethren's refection.
When the venerable Father perceived them sad, he endeavoured by a mild
and gentle reproach to reprehend their pusillanimity, and with fair
promises to comfort them, saying: ""Why is your soul sad for want of
bread? To day you are in want but to-morrow you shall have plenty." The
next day there were found two hundred sacks of meal before the
Monastery gates, by whom God Almighty sent it as yet no man knoweth.
Which when the Monks beheld, they gave thanks to God, and by this were
taught in their greatest want to hope for plenty.

PETER

Tell me, I pray you, is it to be thought that this servant of God had
continually the spirit of prophecy, when himself pleased, or only at
certain times with some discontinuance.

GREGORY

The spirit of prophecy, Peter, doth not always cast his beams upon the
understanding of the Prophets, for as it is written of the Holy Ghost:
"He breatheth where He will." So likewise must we conceive, also, when
He pleaseth. And, therefore, Nathan being asked by the king if he might
build the Temple, first allowed him to do it, and afterwards forbade
him. This was the reason that Eliseus knew not the cause why the woman
wept but said to his servant who did oppose her: "Let her alone for her
soul is in anguish, and the Lord hath concealed it from me and hath not
made it known." Thus Almighty God of His great mercy so disposeth in
His providence, tot he end that by giving the spirit of prophecy
sometimes, and at other times withdrawing it, the minds of the Prophets
be both humility, for by receiving the spirit they may know they are
inspired by God, and again they receive it not, they may consider what
they are of themselves.

PETER

It standeth with good reason what you have said. But, I beseech you,
prosecute what else you remember of the venerable Father Benedict.

CHAPTER XXII

How by a vision, he gave order to construct The Monastery of Terracina.

At another time, he was requested by a certain devout man to send some
of his disciples to build a Monastery on his estate near the city of
Terracina. To which request he consented, and sent some Monks,
appointing an Abbot and Prior over them. As they were setting forward,
he promised, saying: "Go, and upon such a day I will come and shew you
where to build the Oratory, where the Refectory and lodging for the
guests, or what else shall be necessary." So they received his blessing
and departed, in hope to see him at the appointed day, for which they
prepared all tings they thought fit and necessary for their Gather and
his company. The night before the appointed day the man of God appeared
in sleep to him whom, he had constituted Abbot and to his Prior, and
described to them most exactly how he would have the building ordered.
When they awaked, they related to each other what they had seen, yet
not altogether relying upon that vision, they expected the man of God
according to his promise, but seeing he came not at his appointed time,
they returned to him very pensive, saying: "We have expected, Father,
your coming, as you promised, but you came not to shew us where and
what we should build." To whom he said: "Why, Brethren, why do you say
so? Did not I come according to my promise?" And when they said: "When
came you?" he replied: "Did I not appear to each of you in your sleep
and describe every place? Go, and according to the direction given you
in that vision construct the Monastery." Hearing this they were much
astonished, and so, returning to the manor, they erected the whole
building according to the revelation.

PETER

I would gladly be informed how and in what manner he could express his
mind to them so far off, so they should both hear and understand by an
apparition.

GREGORY

What is the reason, Peter, thou dost so curiously search out the manner
how it was done? It is evident that the spirit is of more mobile nature
than the body. And we are taught by Scripture how the Prophet was taken
up in Judea and set down, with the dinner he carried, in Chaldea, and,
after he had refreshed another Prophet with his dinner, found himself
again in Judea. If then Habacuc in a moment could corporally go so fat
and carry his dinner, what wonder if father Benedict obtained to go in
spirit and intimate to the spirits of his Brethren what was necessary;
that as the other went corporally to convey corporal food, so he might
go in spirit to inform them of things concerning a spiritual live?

PETER

I confess that by this your discourse you have given full satisfaction
to my doubtful mind; but I would gladly know what kind of man he was in
his common conversation.

CHAPTER XXIII

How certain Religious women were absolved after their death.

GREGORY

Even his ordinary discourse, Peter, had a certain efficacious virtue,
for his heart being elevated in contemplation, he would not allow a
word to pass from his mouth in vain. If at any time he spake aught, yet
not as one that determined what was best to be done, but by way of
threatening, his words had the same force as if he had absolutely
decreed it. For, not far from his Monastery, two Nuns of noble race and
parentage lived in a place of their own: and a certain Religious man
provided them with all things for their exterior. But as in some,
nobility of birth causeth baseness in mind, so those, who bear in mind
their own greatness do less humble themselves in this world. There
aforesaid Nuns had not, as yet, refrained their tongues by a Religious
habit, but by their unadvised speeches, oftentimes provoked to anger
the Religious man who had care over them. Wherefore, after he had for a
long time endured their contumelious language, he complained to the man
of God of the injuries he suffered. Which as soon as he heard he
commanded them forthwith, saying: "Have a care of your tongues, for if
you do not amend I excommunicate you." Which sentence of
excommunication notwithstanding, he did not pronounce by threaten. Yet
for all this, they nothing changed in their former conditions. Within a
few days after they departed this life, and were buried in the Church.
At such time as a Solemn Mass was sung, and the Deacon, as the custom
is, cried aloud: "If there by any that communicateth not, let him go
forth," then their nurse, who used to make offerings to our Lord for
them, saw them rise out of their graves and go forth. This she often
observed, that, when the Deacon cried in that manner, they went out,
not able to remain in the Church, and, calling to mind what the man of
God had said to them whilst they were living, (for he excluded them
from communion unless they amended their language and manners) she,
with great sorrow, informed the servant of god what she had seen. He
presently with his own hands gave the offering saying: "Go and cause
this oblation to be offered to out Lord, and they shall be no longer
excommunicated." When therefore, this offering was made, and the
Deacon, according to custom, cried out that such as did not communicate
should go out of the Church, they were not seen to go forth any more.
Whereby it was apparent that, whereas they went not forth with the
excommunicated, they were admitted by out Lord to communion.

PETER

It is marvellous strange that this man, although venerable and most
holy, as yet living in the mortal body, should be able to release those
who were standing at the invisible tribunal.

GREGORY

And was not he, Peter, yet in this flesh who heard; "Whatsoever thou
shalt bind upon earth shall be bound also in Heave, and whatsoever thou
shalt loose on earth shall be loosed also in Heaven." Whose place and
authority in binding and loosing they possess, who, by faith and
virtuous life, obtain the dignity of holy government. And that man, and
earthly creature, might receive this power, the Creator of Heaven and
earth came down from Heaven to earth and that flesh might judge of
spiritual things He became man for the redemption of mankind. For god
thus condescending beneath Himself raised our weakness above itself.

PETER

For the virtue of his miracles your words do yield a very good reason.

CHAPTER XXIV

Of a boy who was cast out of his grave.

GREGORY

Upon a certain day, a young Monk of his, who was over-much affected
towards his parents, went from the Monastery to their abode without his
benediction, and the very same day, as soon a he was come to them he
died. The day following his burial they found his body cast up, which
they inferred the second time, and the next day after it was found in
like manner lying above ground as before. Hereupon they ran straight
way and fell at the feet of the most mild Father Benedict imploring his
aid, to whom the man of God with his own hand gave the communion of the
Lord's Body saying: "Go, and lay the Body of the Lord upon his breast
and so bury him." This done, the earth dept his body, and never after
cast it up. You perceive, Peter, of what merit this man was with our
Lord Jesus Christ, sith the very earth cast forth the body of him who
had not received the blessing of Benedict.

PETER

I do plainly perceive it, and am much astonished thereat.

CHAPTER XXV

Of the Monk, who leaving his Monastery met a dragon in the way.

One of his Monks of a wandering and inconstant disposition, would by no
means abide in the Monastery. Although the man of god had often
reproved and admonished him of it, he would in no wise consent to
remain in the congregation, and often entreated earnestly to be
released. So the venerable Father, overcome with his importunity in
anger bade him begone. Scarce was he got out of the Monastery, when he
met in the way a dragon who, with open mouth made towards him. Seeing
it ready to devout him, he began to quake and tremble, crying out
aloud: "Help, help, for this dragon will devout me." The Brethren upon
this ran out, yet saw no dragon, but took the panting and afrightened
Monk back again to the Monastery, who forthwith promised never to
depart and from that time he remained always constant in his promise.
He, by the prayers of the holy man, was made to see the dragon ready to
devout him, which before he had followed unperceived.

CHAPTER XXVI

Of the boy cured of the Leprosy.

But I must not pass over in silence what I heard of a very honouralbe
man named Anthony, who affirmed that a servant of his father fell into
a leprosy, insomuch that his hair fell off, and his skin was swollen so
that he could not longer hide the increase of his disease. Who being
sent by the gentleman's father to the man of God, he was by him quickly
restored to his former health.

CHAPTER XXVII

How Saint Benedict miraculously procured money for a poor man to
discharge his debt.

Nor will I conceal that which his disciple Peregrine was wont to
relate: how, on a certain day, an honest man, constrained by the
necessity of a debt, thought his only remedy was to have recourse to
the man of god, and acquaint him with his necessity. So he came to the
Monastery, where finding the servant of Almighty God, told him how he
was extremely urged by his creditor for the payment of twelve
shillings. The venerable father answered him that, in very deed, he had
not twelve shillings, but yet he comforted his want with good words,
saying: "Go, and after two days return hither again for today I have it
not to give thee." These two days, as his custom was, he spent in
prayer, and, on the third day, when the poor debtor came again,
thirteen shillings were found upon a chest of the Monastery that as
full of corn. These the man of God caused to be brought to him, and
gave them to the distressed man, saying that he might pay twelve, and
have one to defray his charges.

But to return to those things which I learned of his disciples of whom
I spoke in the beginning of this book, there was a certain man had an
adversary who bore him deadly hatred, and so great was his malice that
he gave him poison in his drink; which potion, although it procured not
his death, yet so altered his colour that his body became all speckled
lake a leper. This man was brought to the man of God and was quickly
restored to his former health; for as soon as he toughed him, the
diversity of colours vanished from his skin.

CHAPTER XXVIII

How a bottle was cast down upon the Stones and not broken.

At such time as the great famine was in Campania, the man of god gave
all he had in his Monastery to those in want, insomuch as there was
almost nothing left in the cellar save only a little oil in a glass
vessel. When one Agapitus, a Subdeacon, came earnestly entreating to
have a little oil given him, the man of God (who had resolved to five
all upon earth that he might have all in Heaven) commanded this little
oil that was left to be given him. The Monk, who was Cellarer, heard
his command but was loath to fulfil it. And the holy man a little while
after demanded whether he had done what he willed him, and the Monk
answered that he had not given it, because if he had given it, there
would be nothing left for the Brothers. Hereat, much displeased, the
good father bade some other take the glass bottle in which there
remained a little oil, and cast it out of the window, to the end that
nothing of the fruits of disobedience mi8ght remain in the Monastery.
This was accordingly done; under the window was a steep fall, full of
huge rough stones, upon which the lass fell, yet it remained as whole
and entire as if it had not been thrown down, so that neither was the
glass broke not the oil spilt. Then the man of God commanded it to be
taken up and given to him that asked it. Then calling the Brothers
together, he rebuked the disobedient Monk before them all for his pride
and unfaithfulness.

CHAPTER XXIX

How an empty barrel was filled with oil.

Having ended the Chapter, he and all the Brethren fell to their
prayers. In the place where they prayed was an empty oil-barrel close
covered. As the holy man continued his prayer, the cover of the said
tun began to be heaved up by the oil increasing under it, which ran
over the brim of the vessel upon the floor in great abundance. Which so
soon as the servant of God, Benedict, beheld, he forthwith ended his
prayer, and the oil ceased to run over. Then he admonished the
distrustful and disobedient brother to have confidence and learn
humility. So the brother thus reprehended was much ashamed, because the
venerable Father had by his admonition and by his miracle shewn the
power of Almighty God, nor could anyone afterwards doubt of what he
promised, since, as it were in a moment, for a glass bottle almost
empty, he had restored a tun full of oil.

CHAPTER XXX

How he delivered a Monk from the devil.

One day as he was going to Saint John's Oratory, which stands upon the
very top of the mountain, he met the old enemy upon a mule, in the
habit and comportment of a physician, carrying a horn and a mortar;
who, being demanded whither he went, answered he was going to the monks
to minister a potion. So the venerable Father Benedict went forward to
the chapel to pray, and, having finished, returned back in great haste,
for the wicked spirit found one of the ancient Monks drawing water, and
presently he entered into him, threw him on to the ground and tortured
him pitifully. As soon as the man of god, returning from prayer, found
him thus cruelly tormented, he only gave him a blow on the cheek with
his hand, and immediately drave the wicked spirit out of him, so that
he durst never after return.

PETER

I would know whether he obtained these great miracles always by prayer,
or did them some times only by the intimation of his will?

GREGORY

They who are perfectly united with God, when necessity requireth, work
miracles both ways, sometimes they do wonders by prayer, sometimes by
power. For since Saint John saith: "As many as received Him, to them He
gave power to become sons of God." What wonder is it if they have the
privilege and power to work miracles who are exalted to the dignity of
children of God. And that they work miracles in both ways is manifest
in Saint Peter, who by prayer, raised Tabitha from death, and punished
with death Ananias and Sapphira for their falsehood. For we do not read
that he prayed when they fell down dead, but only that he rebuked them
for their fault committed. It is evident therefore that these things
are done sometimes by power, sometimes by petition; since that by
reproof he deprived these of their life, and by prayer revived the
other.

But now I will produce two other acts of the faithful servant of God,
Benedict, in which it shall clearly appear that some things he could do
by power received from Heaven, and others by prayer.

CHAPTER XXXI

How a country man was loosed by only the sight of the man of God.

A certain Goth named Galla was of the impious sect of the Arians, and
he, in the time of their king Totila did, with such monstrous cruelty,
persecute religious men of the Catholic Church, insomuch that if any
cleric or monk came in his sight, he was sure not to escape from his
hands alive. This man enraged with an insatiable covetousness of spoil
and pillage, lighted one day upon a husbandman whom he tortured with
cruel torments. The rustic, overcome with pain, professed that he had
committed his goods to the custody of the servant of God, Benedict.
This he feigned that he might free himself from torments and prolong
his life for some time. Then this Galla gave over tormenting him, and
tying his arms together with a strong cord, made him run before his
horse to shew him who this Benedict was, that had received his goods.
Thus the man went in front, having his arms bound, and brought him to
the holy man's Monastery, whom he found sitting alone at the Monastery
gate reading. Then the countryman said to Galla, who followed furiously
after him: "See! this is Father Benedict whom I told you of." The
barbarous ruffian, looking upon him with enraged fury, thought to
affright him with his usual threats, and began to cry out with a loud
voice, saying: "Rise, rise and deliver up this rustic's goods which
thou hast received." At whose voice the man of G0d suddenly lifted up
his eyes from reading, and saw him and also the countryman whom he kept
bound: bur, as he case his eyes upon his arms, in a wonderful manner
the cords began to fall off so quickly, that no man could possibly have
so soon untied them.

When Galla perceived the man whom he brought bound, so suddenly
loosened and at liberty, struck into fear at the sight of so great
power, he fell prostrate, and bowing his stiff and cruel neck at the
holy man's feet, begged his prayers. But the holy man rose not from his
reading but called upon the Brethren to bring him to receive his
benediction. When he was brought to him, he exhorted him to leave his
barbarous and inhuman cruelty. So, vanquished, he departed, never after
presuming to ask anything of the countryman, whom the man of God
unloosed not by touching but by casting his eye upon. Thus you see,
Peter, as I said, that those who are the true servants of Almighty God,
sometimes do work miracles by a commanding power, for he who sitting
still abated the fury of that terrible Goth and with his only look
unloosed the cords wherewith the innocent man's arms were fast
pinioned, sheweth, evidently, by the swiftness of the miracle, that he
wrought it by a power received. Now I will also shew you how great and
strange a miracle he obtained by prayer.

CHAPTER XXXII

How he raised a child from the dead.

As he was one day in the field labouring with his Brethren, a certain
peasant came to the Monastery, carrying in his arms the dead body of
his son, and pitifully lamenting his loss, asked for the holy Father
Benedict. When they said that he was in the field, he presently laid
down the dead body of his son at the Monastery gate, and, as one
distracted with grief, began running to find out the venerable father.
At the same time the man of God was coming home with his Brethren from
labouring in the field, whom, when the distressed countryman espied, he
began to cry out: Restore me my son, restore me my son." But the man of
God amazed at this voice said: "What! have I taken you son from you?"
To whom the man replied: "He is dead, come and raise him." When the
servant of God heard this he was much grieved, and said: "Go, Brethren,
go! This is not a work for us, but such as were the holy Apostles. Why
will you impose burdens upon us which we cannot bear?" Notwithstanding,
the man enforced with excessive grief, persisted in his petition,
swearing that he would not depart unless he raised his son to life.
Then the servant of God enquired, saying: "Where is he?" He answered:
"Lo! his body lieth at the Monastery Gate." Whither, when the man of
God with his Brethren was come, he knelt down and laid himself on the
body of the child; then, raising himself and with his hands held up
towards Heaven, he prayed: "O Lord, regard not my sins, but the faith
of this man who craveth to have his son restored to life, and restore
again to this body the soul which thou hast taken from it." Scarce had
he finished these words, but all the body of the boy began to tremble
at the re-entry of the soul, so that in the sight of all who were
present he was seen with wonderful quaking to pant and breathe. Whom he
presently took by the hand and delivered alive and sound to his father.

It seemth to me, Peter, he had not this miracle actually in his power,
which he prostrated himself to obtain by prayer.

PETER

What you have said is undoubtedly true, because you prove by deeds what
was said in words. But I pray, certify me, whether holy men can effect
and obtain whatsoever they will or desire?

CHAPTER XXXIII

Of the miracle wrought by his sister Scholastica.

GREGORY

Who was ever, Peter, in this life more sublime than Saint Paul, who,
notwithstanding, three times craved of our Lord to be free from the
pricks of the flesh, yet could not obtain it? To this purpose, I must
tell you a passage concerning the venerable Father Benedict, that there
was something he desired and was not able to accomplish.

His sister Scholastica, who was consecrated to God from her very
childhood, used to come once a year to see him; unto whom the man of
god was wont to go to a house not far from the gate, within the
possession of the Monastery. Thither she came one day according to her
custom, and her venerable brother likewise with his disciples: where,
after they had spent the whole day in the praise of God and pious
discourses, the night drawing on, they took their reflection together.
As they were yet sitting at table, and protracting the time with holy
conference, the religious woman, his sister, entreated him saying: "I
beseech you, leave me not this night, that we may talk until morning of
the joys of the heavenly life." To whom he answered: "What is this you
say, sister? by no means can I stay out of my Monastery. At this time
the sky was serene, and not a cloud was to be seen in the air. The holy
woman, therefore, hearing her brother's refusal, clasped her hands
together upon the table, and bowing her head upon them she prayed to
Almighty God. As she raised up her head from the table, there began
such vehement lightning and thunder, with such abundance of rain, that
neither venerable Benedict nor his Brethren were able to put foor out
of doors. For the holy woman when she leaned her head upon her hands,
poured forth a flood of tears upon the table by which she changed the
fair weather into foul and rainy. For, immediately after her prayers,
followed the inundation, and the two did so concur that, as she lifted
up her head, the crack of thunder was heard, so that in one and the
same instant she lifted up her head and brought down the rain. Then the
man of god perceiving that, by reason of thunder and lightening with
continual showers of rain, he could not possibly return to his
monastery, was sad and began to complain, saying: "God Almighty forgive
you, sister, what is this you have done?" To whom She mad answer: "I
prayed you to stay and you would not hear me; I prayed to Almighty God
and he heard me! Now, therefore, if you can, go forth to the Monastery
and leave me." But he not able to go forth, was forced to stay against
his will.

Thus it fell out that they spent the night in watching, and received
full content in spiritual discourse of heavenly matters. By this it
appears, as I said before, that he desired something which he could not
obtain; for if we consider the mind of the venerable man, he would,
without doubt, have had the fair weather to continue in which he set
out. But, contrary to what he willed, he found a miracle worked by the
courage of a woman in the strength of Almighty God. And no wonder if at
that time a woman were more powerful than he, considering she had long
desired to see her brother. For according to the saying of Saint John:
"God is charity," and with good reason she was more powerful who loved
more.

PETER

I confess that I am wonderfully pleased with that which you tell me.

CHAPTER XXXIV

In what manner Saint Benedict saw the soul of his sister go forth from
her body.

GREGORY

The next day, the venerable woman returned to her Cloister and the man
of God to his Monastery. When, behold, three days after, while standing
in his cell, he saw the soul of his sister depart out of her body, and,
in the form of a dove, ascend and enter into the celestial mansions.
Who rejoicing much to see her great glory, gave thanks to God Almighty
in hymns and praises, and announced her death to the Brethren. Whom he
forthwith sent to bring her body to the Monastery, and caused it to be
buried in the same tomb that he had prepared for himself. By means of
which it fell out, that as their minds were always one in God, so also
their bodies were not separated in their burial.

CHAPTER XXXV

How the whole world was repesented before his eyes: and the soul of
Germanus, Bishop of Capua.

Another time, Servandus, Deacon and Abbot of that Monastery which was
built by Liberius, sometime a senator, in the Campania, used often to
visit him, for being also illuminated with grace and heavenly doctrine,
he repaired divers times to the Monastery that they might mutually
communicate one to another, and, at least with sighs and longing
desires, taste of that sweet food of the celestial country whose
perfect fruition they were not as yet permitted to enjoy. When it was
time to go to rest, venerable Benedict went up to the top of the tower
in the lower part of which servandus the Deacon had his lodging, and
from which there was an open passage to ascend to the higher. Over
against the said tower was a large building in which the disciples of
both reposed. While as yet the Monks were at rest, the man of God,
Benedict, being diligent in watching, rose up before the night office
and stood at the window making his prayer to Almighty God about
midnight, when suddenly, looking forth, he was a light glancing from
above, so bright and resplendent that it not only dispersed the
darkness of the night, but shined more clear than the day itself. Upon
this sight a marvellous strange thing followed, for, as he afterwards
related, the whole world, compacted as it were together, was
represented to his eyes in one ray of light. As the venerable Father
had his eyes fixed upon this glorious lustre, he beheld the soul of
Germanus, Bishop of Capua, carried by angels to Heaven in a fiery
globe. Then, for the testimony of so great a miracle, with a loud voice
he called upon Servandus the Deacon, twice or thrice by his name, who,
troubled at such an unusual crying out of the man of God, came up,
looked forth, and saw a little stream of light then disappearing, and
wondered greatly at this miracle. Whereupon the man of God told him in
order all that he had seen, and sent presently to Theoprobus, a
Religious man in the town of Casino, ordering him to go the same night
to Capua, and learn what had happened to Germanus the Bishop. It fell
out so, that he who was sent found the most reverend Bishop Germanus
dead, and on enquiring more exactly, he learned that his departure was
the very same moment in which the ma of God has seen him ascend.

PETER

A wonderful thing and much to be admired, but, whereas you said that
the whole world, as it were, under one sunbeam, was represented to his
sight, as I never experienced the like, so I cannot imagine how or in
what manner this was possible that the whole world should be seen of
any one man.

GREGORY

Assure yourself, Peter, of that which I speak: that in a soul that
beholdeth the Creator, all creatures appear but narrow; for, should we
partake never so little of the light of the Creator, whatsoever is
created would seem very little; because the soul is enlarged by this
Beatific vision, and so dilated in the Divine Perfections, that it far
transcends the world and itself also. The soul thus rapt in the light
of God is in her interior lifted up, and enabled above itself, and
while thus elevated it contemplates itself, and it easily comprehendeth
how little that is which before it was not able to conceive. So the
blessed man who saw the globe of fire with the Angels returning to
Heaven could not possibly have beheld those things but only in the
light of God. What wonder then if he saw the world at one view who was
in mind exalted above the world? But whereas I said that the whole
world compacted as it were together was represented before his eyes, it
is not meant that heaven and earth were straitened by contraction, but
that the mind of the beholder was dilated, which, rapt in the sight of
God might, without difficulty, see all that is under God. Therefore, in
that light which appeared to his outward eyes, the inward light which
was in his soul ravished the mind of the beholder with higher tings,
and shewed how mean are all inferior things.

PETER

I perceive that it was to my profit that I understood you not before,
for my slowness has been the occasion of so long and profitable a
discourse. But, since you have clearly explained these tings to me, I
beseech you continue your former narration.

CHAPTER XXXVI

How he wrote a Rule for Monks.

I would willingly, Peter, relate many things concerning this venerable
Father, but some of purpose I omit, because I hasten to speak of the
acts of others. Only this I would not have you to be ignorant of, that
the man of God, among so many miracles wherewith he shined to the
world, was also eminent for his doctrine, for he wrote a Rule for Monks
both excellent for discretion and eloquent in style. Of whose life and
conversation if any wish to know further, he may in the institution of
that Rule understand all his manner of life and discipline, for the
holy man could not possibly reach otherwise than he lived.

CHAPTER XXXVII

How he prophetically foretold his death to his Brethren.

The same year in which he departed out of this life, he foretold the
day of his most holy death to some of his disciples who conversed with
him, and to others who were far off, giving strict charge to those who
were present to keep in silence what they had heard, and declaring to
the absent by what sign they should know when his soul departed out of
his body. Six days before his departure he caused his grave to be
opened, and immediately after he fell into a fever, by the violence
whereof his strength began to wax faint, and the infirmity daily
increasing, the sixth day he caused his disciples to carry him into the
Oratory, where he did arm himself for his going forth by receiving the
body and Blood of the Lord; then, supporting his weak limbs by the
hands of his disciples, he stood up, his hands lifted towards Heaven,
and with words of prayer at last breathed forth his soul. The same day
two of his Brethren, the one living in the Monastery and the other in a
place far remote, had a revelation in one and the self-same manner. For
they beheld a way, spread with garments and shining with innumerable
lamps, stretching directly eastwards from his cell up to Heaven; a man
of venerable aspect stood above and asked them whose way that was. But
they professing they knew not, he said to them: "This is the way by
which the beloved of the Lord, Benedict, ascended." Thus the disciples
who were present knew of the death of the holy man, and so also those
who were absent understood it by the sign foretold them. He was buried
in the Oratory of Saint John the Baptist which he himself had built
upon the ruins of Apollo's altar.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

How a mad woman was cured in his cave.

In the cave in which he formerly lived in Subiaco, even to this day,
miracles are wrought upon such as repair thither with true faith. For
very lately happened that which I now relate. A certain woman bereft of
reason, and altogether distracted in her senses, roamed over mountains
and valleys, through woods and fields by day and night, never resting,
except when forced from weariness to lie down. One day, as she raged
thus madly up and down, she lighted upon the cave of blessed Benedict,
and by chance entered and remained there. The next morning she came out
as sound and perfect in her senses as if she had never been out of
them, and from that time remained all her life in the health which she
had there recovered.

PETER

What should be the reason that we experience, even in the patronage of
martyrs, that they do not bestow so great favours by their bodies as by
their relics: yea, and do greater miracles where themselves be not?

GREGORY

Where the bodies of holy martyrs lie, no doubt, Peter, but there they
are able to shew many miracles, as they do; for to such as have
recourse unto them, with pure mind, they shew many marvellous favours.
But forasmuch as weak souls might doubt whether they be present to hear
them or no in those places where their bodies be not, it is necessary
to shew more miracles where weak souls may doubt of their presence. For
they whose minds are fixed in God have so much the greater merit of
faith, that though their bodies lie not there, yet they be there
present to hear our prayers. Wherefore Truth Itself to increase the
faith of His disciples said: "If I go not away the Paraclete will not
come unto you." For whereas it is certain, that the Holy Ghost, the
Comforter, always proceedeth from the Father and the Son; why doth the
Son say that He will go from them that the Paraclete may come, who
never departeth from the Son? But because the Disciples beholding our
Lord in the flesh, did desire always to behold Him with their corporeal
eyes, it was rightly said unto them: "Unless I go away the Paraclete
will not come." As if He had said plainly: If I withdraw not My bodily
presence, I do not shew you the love of the Spirit; and, unless you
cease to see Me carnally, you will never learn to love spiritually.

PETER

What you say pleaseth me.

GREGORY

Let us now for a while cease our discourse, that by silence we may be
the better enabled to prosecute the miracles of other saints.

                              - THE END -

CHRONOLOGY OF THE LIFE OF THE MOST HOLY PATRIARCH SAINT BENEDICT

"His memory shall not depart away; and his Name shall be in request
from generation to generation." (Ecclus. 39)

YEAR. (numbers in parenthesis denote the age of Saint Benedict)
  * 480. (0) Saint Benedict and his twin-sister Saint Scholastica are
    born in Nursia, a town in the south of Italy: their Father, Anicius
    Eupropius: their Mother, Abundantia.
  * 487. (7) Saint Benedict is sent to tome to study, his nurse Cyrilla
    accompanies him.
  * 493. (13) God, calling him to higher things, and the dangers of the
    world prompting him to leave it, he quits Rome to seek salvation
    and perfection in solitude. On their way in a little village, 30
    miles from Rome, he works a miracle to console Cyrilla.
  * 494. (14) He leaves Cyrilla and goes alone to Subiaco, a
    mountainous district, 40 miles distant from Rome: meets a holy
    Hermit named Romanus, from whom he asks and receives the Religious
    Habit: then going into a little Cave amidst the rocks, dwells there
    in union with his God in prayer, unknown to all, excepting Saint
    Romanus who brought him food.
  * 497. (17) On the Easter Sunday of this year, a Priest receives a
    command from God to visit this Cave, and honour the youthful
    hermit.
  * Some neighbouring Shepherds discover the Saint.
  * He gains the noble victory over the spirit of impurity and placing
    the lily of his Chastity amidst thorns and nettles, he secures it
    against every temptation for the remainder of his life.
  * 509. (29) His sanctity becoming noised abroad many men leave the
    world, and put themselves under his spiritual guidance.
  * 510. (30) After frequent refusals he, at last, yields to the
    request of the Monks of Vico-Varro, who besought him to become
    their Abbot. As he had foretold them they grew angry at his
    corrections; they seek to poison him: he returns to his dear
    solitude of Subiaco.
  * Saint Maurus is born.
  * 511. (31) During the next 19 years Saint Benedict builds 12
    monasteries on the Subiaco mountains.
  * 515. (35) Saint Placid is born.
  * 522. (42) Saint Maurus and Saint Placid are brought to Subiaco by
    their Parents, and receive from Saint Benedict the Monastic Habit.
  * 523. (43) Saint Maurus in obedience to Saint Benedict walks on the
    waters of the lake, into which Saint Placid had fallen, and saves
    him from being drowned.
  * 529. (49) Saint Benedict leaves Subiaco, and goes to Mount Cassino
    (about 50 miles south of Subiaco).
  * 530. (50) He begins to build the Monastery of Mount Cassino.
  * 536. (56) He sends Saint Placid into Sicily.
  * Saint Benedict has the mysterious vision, in which God grants him
    the sight of the whole world, brought together in one ray of the
    sun.
  * 537. (57) Saint Placid begins the Monastery at Messina in Sicily:
    he finishes it in 4 years.
  * 539. (59) During a famine Saint Benedict distributes to the poor
    all the corn of the Monastery: on the following day he receives
    from Heaven, in return, 200 bushels of flour.
  * In hatred of Disobedience and out of love for Charity he works the
    miracle of the glass oil-jar.
  * Whilst he is at prayer with some of his Brethren, an empty vessel
    which was in the room is miraculously filled with oil, even to
    over-flowing.
  * 541. (61) Saint Placid is martyred (probably in this year).
  * 543. (63) King Totila the Barbarian visits Saint Benedict: receives
    his paternal reproach and prophecy.
  * On the 10th of January, Saint Benedict sends Saint Maurus into
    France.
  * On the 6th of February, he sees the soul of his Sister, Saint
    Scholastica, ascending to heaven under the form of a Dove.
  * On the 16th of March, knowing that the hour of his Death is near he
    orders his grave to be opened.
  * On the 21st of March at 3 o'clock in the morning, standing in the
    chapel of his Monastery of Mount Cassino, supported by his
    Religious, he dies, in the 63rd year of his age.

(from Haften's Disgnis. Monast.)

About This eBook

[INS: The Life of Our most Holy Father Saint Benedict :INS] was written
by Pope Saint Gregory the Great. The text file used was swiped from the
Christian Classics Ethereal Library at www.ccel.org. That file is based
on a book printed in London in [11]1898 by Thomas Baker. The original
file includes the following dedications

This Edition of the Life and rule of Saint Benedict is respectfully,
gratefully and affectionately dedicated by His English Daughters in
Rome who owe to His Eminence more graces and blessings than words can
convey.

The Latin of this edition of the life of Saint Benedict by Saint
Gregory the Great, is from that used by dom. Edmund Martane, the
English is almost exactly that of the quaint translation published in
1638. The text used for the Holy Rule is that of an ancient manuscript
existing at Monte Cassino, first published in 1659 by Dom, Paul de
Ferrariis, a monk of that Abbey. The English is, as far as is
consistent with the original, from the time honoured translation of
[12]1638, as edited in [13]1875 by "one of the [14]Benedictine Fathers
of Saint Michael's, near Hereford."

