____________________

[9]Pope Francis - Inauguration Homily, 19 March 2013

1. Dear Brothers and Sisters, I thank the Lord that I can
celebrate this Holy Mass for the inauguration of my Petrine ministry on
the solemnity of Saint Joseph, the spouse of the Virgin Mary and the
patron of the universal Church. It is a significant coincidence, and it
is also the name-day of my venerable predecessor: we are close to him
with our prayers, full of affection and gratitude.

I offer a warm greeting to my brother cardinals and bishops, the
priests, deacons, men and women religious, and all the lay faithful. I
thank the representatives of the other churches and ecclesial
communities, as well as the representatives of the Jewish community and
the other religious communities, for their presence. My cordial
greetings go to the Heads of State and Government, the members of the
official Delegations from many countries throughout the world, and the
Diplomatic Corps.

In the Gospel we heard that "Joseph did as the angel of the Lord
commanded him and took Mary as his wife" (Matthew 1:24). These words
already point to the mission which God entrusts to Joseph: he is to be
the custos, the protector. The protector of whom? Of Mary and Jesus;
but this protection is then extended to the Church, as Blessed John
Paul II pointed out: "Just as Saint Joseph took loving care of Mary and
gladly dedicated himself to Jesus Christ's upbringing, he likewise
watches over and protects Christ's Mystical Body, the Church, of which
the Virgin Mary is the exemplar and model" (Redemptoris Custos, 1).

How does Joseph exercise his role as protector? Discreetly, humbly and
silently, but with an unfailing presence and utter fidelity, even when
he finds it hard to understand. From the time of his betrothal to Mary
until the finding of the twelve-year-old Jesus in the Temple of
Jerusalem, he is there at every moment with loving care. As the spouse
of Mary, he is at her side in good times and bad, on the journey to
Bethlehem for the census and in the anxious and joyful hours when she
gave birth; amid the drama of the flight into Egypt and during the
frantic search for their child in the Temple; and later in the
day-to-day life of the home of Nazareth, in the workshop where he
taught his trade to Jesus.

How does Joseph respond to his calling to be the protector of Mary,
Jesus and the Church? By being constantly attentive to God, open to the
signs of God's presence and receptive to God's plans, and not simply to
his own. This is what God asked of David, as we heard in the first
reading. God does not want a house built by men, but faithfulness to
his word, to his plan. It is God himself who builds the house, but from
living stones sealed by his Spirit. Joseph is a "protector" because he
is able to hear God's voice and be guided by his will; and for this
reason he is all the more sensitive to the persons entrusted to his
safekeeping. He can look at things realistically, he is in touch with
his surroundings, he can make truly wise decisions. In him, dear
friends, we learn how to respond to God's call, readily and willingly,
but we also see the core of the Christian vocation, which is Christ!
Let us protect Christ in our lives, so that we can protect others, so
that we can protect creation!

The vocation of being a "protector", however, is not just something
involving us Christians alone; it also has a prior dimension which is
simply human, involving everyone. It means protecting all creation, the
beauty of the created world, as the Book of Genesis tells us and as
Saint Francis of Assisi showed us. It means respecting each of God's
creatures and respecting the environment in which we live. It means
protecting people, showing loving concern for each and every person,
especially children, the elderly, those in need, who are often the last
we think about. It means caring for one another in our families:
husbands and wives first protect one another, and then, as parents,
they care for their children, and children themselves, in time, protect
their parents. It means building sincere friendships in which we
protect one another in trust, respect, and goodness. In the end,
everything has been entrusted to our protection, and all of us are
responsible for it. Be protectors of God's gifts!

Whenever human beings fail to live up to this responsibility, whenever
we fail to care for creation and for our brothers and sisters, the way
is opened to destruction and hearts are hardened. Tragically, in every
period of history there are "Herods" who plot death, wreak havoc, and
mar the countenance of men and women.

Please, I would like to ask all those who have positions of
responsibility in economic, political and social life, and all men and
women of goodwill: let us be "protectors" of creation, protectors of
God's plan inscribed in nature, protectors of one another and of the
environment. Let us not allow omens of destruction and death to
accompany the advance of this world! But to be "protectors", we also
have to keep watch over ourselves! Let us not forget that hatred, envy
and pride defile our lives! Being protectors, then, also means keeping
watch over our emotions, over our hearts, because they are the seat of
good and evil intentions: intentions that build up and tear down! We
must not be afraid of goodness or even tenderness!

Here I would add one more thing: caring, protecting, demands goodness,
it calls for a certain tenderness. In the Gospels, Saint Joseph appears
as a strong and courageous man, a working man, yet in his heart we see
great tenderness, which is not the virtue of the weak but rather a sign
of strength of spirit and a capacity for concern, for compassion, for
genuine openness to others, for love. We must not be afraid of
goodness, of tenderness!

Today, together with the feast of Saint Joseph, we are celebrating the
beginning of the ministry of the new Bishop of Rome, the Successor of
Peter, which also involves a certain power. Certainly, Jesus Christ
conferred power upon Peter, but what sort of power was it? Jesus' three
questions to Peter about love are followed by three commands: feed my
lambs, feed my sheep. Let us never forget that authentic power is
service, and that the Pope too, when exercising power, must enter ever
more fully into that service which has its radiant culmination on the
Cross. He must be inspired by the lowly, concrete and faithful service
which marked Saint Joseph and, like him, he must open his arms to
protect all of God's people and embrace with tender affection the whole
of humanity, especially the poorest, the weakest, the least important,
those whom Matthew lists in the final judgment on love: the hungry, the
thirsty, the stranger, the naked, the sick and those in prison (cf. Mt
25:31-46). Only those who serve with love are able to protect!

In the second reading, Saint Paul speaks of Abraham, who, "hoping
against hope, believed" (Rom 4:18). Hoping against hope! Today too,
amid so much darkness, we need to see the light of hope and to be men
and women who bring hope to others. To protect creation, to protect
every man and every woman, to look upon them with tenderness and love,
is to open up a horizon of hope; it is to let a shaft of light break
through the heavy clouds; it is to bring the warmth of hope! For
believers, for us Christians, like Abraham, like Saint Joseph, the hope
that we bring is set against the horizon of God, which has opened up
before us in Christ. It is a hope built on the rock which is God.

To protect Jesus with Mary, to protect the whole of creation, to
protect each person, especially the poorest, to protect ourselves: this
is a service that the Bishop of Rome is called to carry out, yet one to
which all of us are called, so that the star of hope will shine
brightly. Let us protect with love all that God has given us!

I implore the intercession of the Virgin Mary, Saint Joseph, Saints
Peter and Paul, and Saint Francis, that the Holy Spirit may accompany
my ministry, and I ask all of you to pray for me! Amen.

