____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 15 September 2010 - Saint Clare of
Assisi

[10]detail of a stained glass window of Saint Clare of Assisi; date
unknown, artist unknown; church of Saint Stephen, South Kensington,
London, England; photographed on 22 December 2014 by Oxfordian Kissuth;
swiped from Wikimedia Commons

1. One of the best loved Saints is without a
doubt Saint Clare of Assisi who lived in the 13th century and was a
contemporary of Saint Francis. Her testimony shows us how indebted the
Church is to courageous women, full of faith like her, who can give a
crucial impetus to the Church's renewal.

So who was Clare of Assisi? To answer this question we possess reliable
sources: not only the ancient biographies, such as that of Tommaso da
Celano, but also the Proceedings of the cause of her canonization that
the Pope promoted only a few month after Clare's death and that contain
the depositions of those who had lived a long time with her.

Born in 1193, Clare belonged to a wealthy, aristocratic family. She
renounced her noble status and wealth to live in humility and poverty,
adopting the lifestyle that Francis of Assisi recommended. Although her
parents were planning a marriage for her with some important figure, as
was then the custom, Clare, with a daring act inspired by her deep
desire to follow Christ and her admiration for Francis, at the age of
18 left her family home and, in the company of a friend, Bona di
Guelfuccio, made her way in secret to the Friars Minor at the little
Church of the Portiuncula. It was the evening of Palm Sunday in 1211.
In the general commotion, a highly symbolic act took place: while his
companions lit torches, Francis cut off Clare's hair and she put on a
rough penitential habit. From that moment she had become the virgin
bride of Christ, humble and poor, and she consecrated herself totally
to him. Like Clare and her companions, down through history innumerable
women have been fascinated by love for Christ which, with the beauty of
his Divine Person, fills their hearts. And the entire Church, through
the mystical nuptial vocation of consecrated virgins, appears what she
will be for ever: the pure and beautiful Bride of Christ.

In one of the four letters that Clare sent to Saint Agnes of Prague the
daughter of the King of Bohemia, who wished to follow in Christ's
footsteps, she speaks of Christ, her beloved Spouse, with nuptial words
that may be surprising but are nevertheless moving: "When you have
loved [him] you shall be chaste; when you have touched [him] you shall
become purer; when you have accepted [him] you shall be a virgin. Whose
power is stronger, whose generosity is more elevated, whose appearance
more beautiful, whose love more tender, whose courtesy more gracious.
In whose embrace you are already caught up; who has adorned your breast
with precious stones... and placed on your head a golden crown as a
sign [to all] of your holiness" (First Letter to Blessed Agnes of
Prague: FF, 2862).

Especially at the beginning of her religious experience, Francis of
Assisi was not only a teacher to Clare whose teachings she was to
follow but also a brotherly friend. The friendship between these two
Saints is a very beautiful and important aspect. Indeed, when two pure
souls on fire with the same love for God meet, they find in their
friendship with each other a powerful incentive to advance on the path
of perfection. Friendship is one of the noblest and loftiest human
sentiments which divine Grace purifies and transfigures. Like Saint
Francis and Saint Clare, other Saints too experienced profound
friendship on the journey towards Christian perfection. Examples are
Saint Francis de Sales and Saint Jane Frances de Chantal. And Saint
Francis de Sales himself wrote: "It is a blessed thing to love on earth
as we hope to love in Heaven, and to begin that friendship here which
is to endure for ever there. I am not now speaking of simple charity, a
love due to all mankind, but of that spiritual friendship which binds
souls together, leading them to share devotions and spiritual
interests, so as to have but one mind between them" (The Introduction
to a Devout Life, III, 19).

After spending a period of several months at other monastic
communities, resisting the pressure of her relatives who did not at
first approve of her decision, Clare settled with her first companions
at the Church of San Damiano where the Friars Minor had organized a
small convent for them. She lived in this Monastery for more than 40
years, until her death in 1253. A first-hand description has come down
to us of how these women lived in those years at the beginning of the
Franciscan movement. It is the admiring account of Jacques de Vitry, a
Flemish Bishop who came to Italy on a visit. He declared that he had
encountered a large number of men and women of every social class who,
having "left all things for Christ, fled the world. They called
themselves Friars Minor and Sisters Minor [Lesser] and are held in high
esteem by the Lord Pope and the Cardinals.... The women live together
in various homes not far from the city. They receive nothing but live
on the work of their own hands. And they are deeply troubled and pained
at being honoured more than they would like to be by both clerics and
lay people" (Letter of October 1216: FF, 2205, 2207).

Jacques de Vitry had perceptively noticed a characteristic trait of
Franciscan spirituality about which Clare was deeply sensitive: the
radicalism of poverty associated with total trust in Divine Providence.
For this reason, she acted with great determination, obtaining from
Pope Gregory IX or, probably, already from Pope Innocent III, the
so-called Privilegium Paupertatis (cf. FF., 3279). On the basis of this
privilege Clare and her companions at San Damiano could not possess any
material property. This was a truly extraordinary exception in
comparison with the canon law then in force but the ecclesiastical
authorities of that time permitted it, appreciating the fruits of
evangelical holiness that they recognized in the way of life of Clare
and her sisters. This shows that even in the centuries of the Middle
Ages the role of women was not secondary but on the contrary
considerable. In this regard, it is useful to remember that Clare was
the first woman in the Church's history who composed a written Rule,
submitted for the Pope's approval, to ensure the preservation of
Francis of Assisi's charism in all the communities of women large
numbers of which were already springing up in her time that wished to
draw inspiration from the example of Francis and Clare.

In the Convent of San Damiano, Clare practised heroically the virtues
that should distinguish every Christian: humility, a spirit of piety
and penitence and charity. Although she was the superior, she wanted to
serve the sick sisters herself and joyfully subjected herself to the
most menial tasks. In fact, charity overcomes all resistance and
whoever loves, joyfully performs every sacrifice. Her faith in the Real
Presence of Christ in the Eucharist was so great that twice a miracle
happened. Simply by showing to them the Most Blessed Sacrament
distanced the Saracen mercenaries, who were on the point of attacking
the convent of San Damiano and pillaging the city of Assisi.

Such episodes, like other miracles whose memory lives on, prompted Pope
Alexander IV to canonize her in 1255, only two years after her death,
outlining her eulogy in the Bull on the Canonization of Saint Clare. In
it we read: "How powerful was the illumination of this light and how
strong the brightness of this source of light. Truly this light was
kept hidden in the cloistered life; and outside them shone with
gleaming rays; Clare in fact lay hidden, but her life was revealed to
all. Clare was silent, but her fame was shouted out" (FF, 3284). And
this is exactly how it was, dear friends: those who change the world
for the better are holy, they transform it permanently, instilling in
it the energies that only love inspired by the Gospel can elicit. The
Saints are humanity's great benefactors!

Saint Clare's spirituality, the synthesis of the holiness she proposed
is summed up in the fourth letter she wrote to Saint Agnes of Prague.
Saint Clare used an image very widespread in the Middle Ages that dates
back to Patristic times: the mirror. And she invited her friend in
Prague to reflect herself in that mirror of the perfection of every
virtue which is the Lord himself. She wrote: "Happy, indeed, is the one
permitted to share in this sacred banquet so as to be joined with all
the feelings of her heart (to Christ) whose beauty all the blessed
hosts of the Heavens unceasingly admire, whose affection moves, whose
contemplation invigorates, whose generosity fills, whose sweetness
replenishes, whose remembrance pleasantly brings light, whose fragrance
will revive the dead, and whose glorious vision will bless all the
citizens of the heavenly Jerusalem, because the vision of him is the
splendour of everlasting glory, the radiance of everlasting light, and
a mirror without tarnish. Look into this mirror every day, O Queen,
spouse of Jesus Christ, and continually examine your face in it, so
that in this way you may adorn yourself completely, inwardly and
outwardly.... In this mirror shine blessed poverty, holy humility, and
charity beyond words..." (Fourth Letter to Blessed Agnes of Prague, FF,
2901-2903).

Grateful to God who give us Saints who speak to our hearts and offer us
an example of Christian life to imitate, I would like to end with the
same words of Blessing that Saint Clare composed for her Sisters and
which the Poor Clares, who play a precious role in the Church with
their prayer and with their work, still preserve today with great
devotion. These are words in which the full tenderness of her spiritual
motherhood emerges: "I give you my blessing now while living, and after
my death, in as far as I may: nay, even more than I may, I call down on
you all the blessings that the Father of mercies has bestowed and
continues to bestow on his spiritual sons and daughters both in Heaven
and on earth, and with which a spiritual father and mother have blessed
and will bless their spiritual sons and daughters. Amen" (FF, 2856).

