____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 14 June 2006 - Andrew, the
Protoclete

1. Dear Brothers and Sisters,

In the last two catecheses we spoke about the figure of Saint Peter.
Now, in the measure that sources allow us, we want to know the other 11
Apostles a bit better. Therefore, today we shall speak of Simon Peter's
brother, Saint Andrew, who was also one of the Twelve.

The first striking characteristic of Andrew is his name: it is not
Hebrew, as might have been expected, but Greek, indicative of a certain
cultural openness in his family that cannot be ignored. We are in
Galilee, where the Greek language and culture are quite present. Andrew
comes second in the list of the Twelve, as in Matthew (10: 1-4) and in
Luke (6: 13-16); or fourth, as in Mark (3: 13-18) and in the Acts (1:
13-14). In any case, he certainly enjoyed great prestige within the
early Christian communities.

The kinship between Peter and Andrew, as well as the joint call that
Jesus addressed to them, are explicitly mentioned in the Gospels. We
read: "As he walked by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon
who is called Peter and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea;
for they were fishermen. And he said to them, "Follow me, and I will
make you fishers of men'" (Mt 4: 18-19; Mk 1: 16-17).

From the Fourth Gospel we know another important detail: Andrew had
previously been a disciple of John the Baptist: and this shows us that
he was a man who was searching, who shared in Israel's hope, who wanted
to know better the word of the Lord, the presence of the Lord.

He was truly a man of faith and hope; and one day he heard John the
Baptist proclaiming Jesus as: "the Lamb of God" (Jn 1: 36); so he was
stirred, and with another unnamed disciple followed Jesus, the one whom
John had called "the Lamb of God". The Evangelist says that "they saw
where he was staying; and they stayed with him that day..." (Jn 1:
37-39).

Thus, Andrew enjoyed precious moments of intimacy with Jesus. The
account continues with one important annotation: "One of the two who
heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
He first found his brother Simon, and said to him, "We have found the
Messiah' (which means Christ). He brought him to Jesus" (Jn 1: 40-43),
straightaway showing an unusual apostolic spirit.

Andrew, then, was the first of the Apostles to be called to follow
Jesus. Exactly for this reason the liturgy of the Byzantine Church
honours him with the nickname: "Protokletos", [protoclete] which means,
precisely, "the first called".

And it is certain that it is partly because of the family tie between
Peter and Andrew that the Church of Rome and the Church of
Constantinople feel one another in a special way to be Sister Churches.
To emphasize this relationship, my Predecessor Pope Paul VI, in 1964,
returned the important relic of Saint Andrew, which until then had been
kept in the Vatican Basilica, to the Orthodox Metropolitan Bishop of
the city of Patras in Greece, where tradition has it that the Apostle
was crucified.

The Gospel traditions mention Andrew's name in particular on another
three occasions that tell us something more about this man. The first
is that of the multiplication of the loaves in Galilee. On that
occasion, it was Andrew who pointed out to Jesus the presence of a
young boy who had with him five barley loaves and two fish: not much,
he remarked, for the multitudes who had gathered in that place (cf. Jn
6: 8-9).

In this case, it is worth highlighting Andrew's realism. He noticed the
boy, that is, he had already asked the question: "but what good is that
for so many?" (ibid.), and recognized the insufficiency of his minimal
resources. Jesus, however, knew how to make them sufficient for the
multitude of people who had come to hear him.

The second occasion was at Jerusalem. As he left the city, a disciple
drew Jesus' attention to the sight of the massive walls that supported
the Temple. The Teacher's response was surprising: he said that of
those walls not one stone would be left upon another. Then Andrew,
together with Peter, James and John, questioned him: "Tell us, when
will this be, and what will be the sign when these things are all to be
accomplished?" (Mk 13: 1-4).

In answer to this question Jesus gave an important discourse on the
destruction of Jerusalem and on the end of the world, in which he asked
his disciples to be wise in interpreting the signs of the times and to
be constantly on their guard.

From this event we can deduce that we should not be afraid to ask Jesus
questions but at the same time that we must be ready to accept even the
surprising and difficult teachings that he offers us.

Lastly, a third initiative of Andrew is recorded in the Gospels: the
scene is still Jerusalem, shortly before the Passion. For the Feast of
the Passover, John recounts, some Greeks had come to the city, probably
proselytes or God-fearing men who had come up to worship the God of
Israel at the Passover Feast. Andrew and Philip, the two Apostles with
Greek names, served as interpreters and mediators of this small group
of Greeks with Jesus.

The Lord's answer to their question - as so often in John's Gospel -
appears enigmatic, but precisely in this way proves full of meaning.
Jesus said to the two disciples and, through them, to the Greek world:
"The hour has come for the Son of man to be glorified. I solemnly
assure you, unless a grain of wheat falls to the earth and dies, it
remains just a grain of wheat; but if it dies, it produces much fruit"
(12: 23-24).

Jesus wants to say: Yes, my meeting with the Greeks will take place,
but not as a simple, brief conversation between myself and a few
others, motivated above all by curiosity. The hour of my glorification
will come with my death, which can be compared with the falling into
the earth of a grain of wheat. My death on the Cross will bring forth
great fruitfulness: in the Resurrection the "dead grain of wheat" - a
symbol of myself crucified - will become the bread of life for the
world; it will be a light for the peoples and cultures.

Yes, the encounter with the Greek soul, with the Greek world, will be
achieved in that profundity to which the grain of wheat refers, which
attracts to itself the forces of heaven and earth and becomes bread.

In other words, Jesus was prophesying about the Church of the Greeks,
the Church of the pagans, the Church of the world, as a fruit of his
Pasch.

Some very ancient traditions not only see Andrew, who communicated
these words to the Greeks, as the interpreter of some Greeks at the
meeting with Jesus recalled here, but consider him the Apostle to the
Greeks in the years subsequent to Pentecost. They enable us to know
that for the rest of his life he was the preacher and interpreter of
Jesus for the Greek world.

Peter, his brother, travelled from Jerusalem through Antioch and
reached Rome to exercise his universal mission; Andrew, instead, was
the Apostle of the Greek world. So it is that in life and in death they
appear as true brothers - a brotherhood that is symbolically expressed
in the special reciprocal relations of the See of Rome and of
Constantinople, which are truly Sister Churches.

A later tradition, as has been mentioned, tells of Andrew's death at
Patras, where he too suffered the torture of crucifixion. At that
supreme moment, however, like his brother Peter, he asked to be nailed
to a cross different from the Cross of Jesus. In his case it was a
diagonal or X-shaped cross, which has thus come to be known as "St
Andrew's cross".

  This is what the Apostle is claimed to have said on that occasion,
  according to an ancient story (which dates back to the beginning of
  the sixth century), entitled The Passion of Andrew:

  "Hail, O Cross, inaugurated by the Body of Christ and adorned with
  his limbs as though they were precious pearls. Before the Lord
  mounted you, you inspired an earthly fear. Now, instead, endowed
  with heavenly love, you are accepted as a gift.

"Believers know of the great joy that you possess, and of the multitude
of gifts you have prepared. I come to you, therefore, confident and
joyful, so that you too may receive me exultant as a disciple of the
One who was hung upon you.... O blessed Cross, clothed in the majesty
and beauty of the Lord's limbs!... Take me, carry me far from men, and
restore me to my Teacher, so that, through you, the one who redeemed me
by you, may receive me. Hail, O Cross; yes, hail indeed!".

Here, as can be seen, is a very profound Christian spirituality. It
does not view the Cross as an instrument of torture but rather as the
incomparable means for perfect configuration to the Redeemer, to the
grain of wheat that fell into the earth.

Here we have a very important lesson to learn: our own crosses acquire
value if we consider them and accept them as a part of the Cross of
Christ, if a reflection of his light illuminates them.

It is by that Cross alone that our sufferings too are ennobled and
acquire their true meaning.

The Apostle Andrew, therefore, teaches us to follow Jesus with
promptness (cf. Mt 4: 20; Mk 1: 18), to speak enthusiastically about
him to those we meet, and especially, to cultivate a relationship of
true familiarity with him, acutely aware that in him alone can we find
the ultimate meaning of our life and death.

                                                         - 14 June 2006

