____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 13 June 2007 - Eusebius of Caesarea

1. In the history of early Christianity there is a fundamental distinction
between the first three centuries and those that followed the Council
of Nicaea in 325, the first Ecumenical Council. Like a "hinge" between
the two periods are the so-called "conversion of Constantine" and the
peace of the Church, as well as the figure of Eusebius, Bishop of
Caesarea in Palestine. He was the most highly qualified exponent of the
Christian culture of his time in very varied contexts, from theology to
exegesis, from history to erudition. Eusebius is known above all as the
first historian of Christianity, but he was also the greatest
philologist of the ancient Church.

It was to Caesarea, where Eusebius was born probably in about the year
260 A.D., that Origen had fled from Alexandria. And in Caesarea, Origen
founded a school and a huge library. A few decades later, the young
Eusebius educated himself with these books. In 325, as Bishop of
Caesarea, he played a lead role at the Council of Nicaea. He signed the
Creed and the affirmation of the full divinity of the Son of God, who
is consequently defined as "one in being with the Father" (homooúsios
tõ Patrí). The Creed we recite every Sunday in the Holy Liturgy is
practically the same.

A sincere admirer of Constantine who had given peace to the Church,
Eusebius in turn was esteemed and respected by Constantine. As well as
with his works, Eusebius also celebrated the Emperor with panegyrics
which he delivered on the 20th and 30th anniversary of his ascendance
to the throne, and upon his death in the year 337. Two or three years
later, Eusebius died too.

Eusebius was an indefatigable scholar. In his numerous writings he
resolved to reflect and to give an up-to-date report on the three
centuries of Christianity, three centuries lived under persecution,
drawing abundantly on the Christian and pagan sources preserved in
particular in the great library of Caesarea.

Thus, despite the objective importance of his apologetic, exegetic and
doctrinal works, the imperishable fame of Eusebius is still mainly
associated with the 10 books of his Ecclesiastical History. He was the
first person to write a history of the Church which continues to be of
fundamental importance, thanks to the sources which Eusebius made
available to us for ever.

With this Chronicle, he succeeded in saving from the doom of oblivion
numerous events, important figures and literary works of the ancient
Church. Thus, his work is a primary source of knowledge of the early
centuries of Christianity.

We might wonder how he structured this new work and what his intentions
were in compiling it. At the beginning of his first book, the historian
lists in detail the topics he intends to treat in his work: "It is my
purpose to write an account of the succession of the holy Apostles, as
well as of the times which have elapsed from the days of our Saviour to
our own; and to relate the many important events which are said to have
occurred in the history of the Church; and to mention those who have
governed and presided over the Church in the most prominent dioceses,
and those who in each generation have proclaimed the divine Word either
orally or in writing.

"It is my purpose also to give the names and number and times of those
who through love of innovation have run into the greatest errors, and,
proclaiming themselves interpreters and promoters of a false doctrine
have, like fierce wolves, unmercifully devastated the flock of
Christ... and to record the ways and the times in which the divine word
has been attacked by the Gentiles, and to describe the character of the
great men who in various periods have defended it in the face of blood
and of tortures... and finally, the mercy and benevolence which Our
Saviour has afforded them all" (cf. I, 1, 1-3).

Thus, Eusebius embraced different spheres: the succession of the
Apostles as the backbone of the Church, the dissemination of the
Message, the errors and then persecutions on the part of the pagans,
and the important testimonies which are the light in this Chronicle.

In all this Eusebius saw the Saviour's mercy and benevolence. So it was
that he inaugurated, as it were, ecclesiastical historiography,
extending his account to 324, the year in which Constantine, after
defeating Licinius, was acclaimed as the one Emperor of Rome. This was
the year before the important Council of Nicaea, which subsequently
offered the "summa" of all that the Church - doctrinally, morally and
also juridically - had learned in the previous 300 years.

The citation we have just quoted from the First Book of the
Ecclesiastical History contains a repetition that is certainly
intentional. The Christological title Saviour recurs three times in the
space of a few lines with an explicit reference to "his mercy" and "his
benevolence".

Thus, we can grasp the fundamental perspective of Eusebian
historiography: his is a "Christocentric" history, in which the mystery
of God's love for humankind is gradually revealed.

Eusebius recognized with genuine amazement that: "Jesus alone of all
those who have ever existed is even to the present day called Christ
[that is Messiah and Saviour of the world] by all men throughout the
world, and is confessed and witnessed to under this name, and is
commemorated both by Greeks and Barbarians and even to this day is
honoured as a King by his followers throughout the world, and is
admired as more than a prophet, and is glorified as the true and only
High Priest of God. And besides all this, as the pre-existent Logos of
God, called into being before all ages, he has received august honour
from the Father, and is worshipped and adored as God. But most
wonderful of all is the fact that we who have consecrated ourselves to
him, honour him not only with our voices and with the sound of words,
but also with complete elevation of soul, so that we choose to give
testimony unto him rather than to preserve our own lives" (cf. I, 3,
19-20).

Another feature thus springs to the fore which was to remain a constant
in ancient ecclesiastical historiography: it is the "moral intention"
that presides in the account. Historical analysis is never an end in
itself; it is not made solely with a view to knowing the past; rather,
it focuses decisively on conversion and on an authentic witness of
Christian life on the part of the faithful. It is a guide for us, too.

Thus, Eusebius strongly challenges believers of all times on their
approach to the events of history and of the Church in particular. He
also challenges us: what is our attitude with regard to the Church's
experiences? Is it the attitude of those who are interested in it
merely out of curiosity, or even in search of something sensational or
shocking at all costs? Or is it an attitude full of love and open to
the mystery of those who know - through faith - that they can trace in
the history of the Church those signs of God's love and the great works
of salvation wrought by him?

If this is our attitude, we can only feel stimulated to a more coherent
and generous response, to a more Christian witness of life, in order to
bequeath the signs of God's love also to the generations to come.

"There is a mystery", Cardinal Jean Daniélou, an eminent Patristics
scholar, never tired of saying:

"History has a hidden content.... The mystery is that of God's works
which constitute in time the authentic reality concealed behind the
appearances.... However, this history which he brings about for man,
God does not bring about without him.

"Pausing to contemplate the "great things' worked by God would mean
seeing only one aspect of things. The human response lies before them"
(Saggio sul mistero della storia, Italian edition, Brescia, 1963, p.
182).

Today, too, so many centuries later, Eusebius of Caesarea invites
believers, invites us, to wonder, to contemplate in history the great
works of God for the salvation of humankind. And just as energetically,
he invites us to conversion of life. Indeed, we cannot remain inert
before a God who has so deeply loved us. The specific demand of love is
that our entire life should be oriented to the imitation of the
Beloved. Let us therefore spare no effort to leave a transparent trace
of God's love in our life.

