____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 14 October 2009 - Blessed Peter the
Venerable

[10]Pope Benedict XVI on the day of his Ascension to the Papacy
[11]Blessed Peter the Venerable Dear brothers and sisters,

The figure of Peter the Venerable, which I wish to present in today's
catechesis, takes us back to the famous abbey of Cluny, to its
"decorum" (decor) and its "lucidity" (nitor), to use terms that recur
in the Cluniac texts - decorum and splendor - which are admired above
all in the beauty of the liturgy, the privileged path to reach God.

Even more than these aspects, however, Peter's personality recalls the
holiness of the great Cluniac abbots: At Cluny "there was not a single
abbot who was not a saint," said Pope Gregory VII in 1080. Among these
is Peter the Venerable, who to some degree gathers in himself all the
virtues of his predecessors - although already with him, Cluny, faced
with new orders such as that of Citeaux, began to experience symptoms
of crisis.

Born around 1094 in the French region of Auvergne, he entered as a
child in the monastery of Sauxillanges, where he became a professed
monk and then prior. He was elected abbot of Cluny in 1122, and
remained in this office until his death, which occurred on Christmas
Day, 1156, as he had wished. "Lover of peace," wrote his biographer,
Rudolph, "he obtained peace in the glory of God on the day of peace".

All those who knew him praised his elegant meekness, serene balance,
self-control, correctness, loyalty, lucidity and special attitude in
mediating. "It is in my very nature," he wrote, "to be somewhat led to
indulgence; I am incited to this by my habit of forgiving. I am used to
enduring and forgiving".

He also said: "With those who hate peace we wish, possibly, to always
be peaceful". And of himself, he wrote: "I am not one of those who is
not happy with his lot ... whose spirit is always anxious and doubtful,
and who laments that all the others are resting and he alone is
working".

Of a sensitive and affectionate nature, he was able to combine love of
the Lord with tenderness toward his family, particularly his mother,
and his friends. He was a cultivator of friendship, especially in his
meetings with his monks, who usually confided in him, certain of being
received and understood. According to the testimony of his biographer,
"he did not disregard or refuse anyone"; "he seemed gracious to all; in
his innate goodness, he was open to all".

We could say that this holy abbot is an example also for the monks and
Christians of our time, marked by a frenetic rhythm of life, where
incidents of intolerance and lack of communication, division and
conflicts are not rare. His witness invites us to be able to combine
love of God with love of neighbor, and never tire of renewing relations
of fraternity and reconciliation. In this way, in fact, Peter the
Venerable behaved, finding himself guiding the monastery of Cluny in
years that were not very tranquil for several external and internal
reasons, succeeding in being simultaneously severe and gifted with
profound humanity. He used to say: "You will be able to obtain more
from a man by tolerating him, than by irritating him with complaints".

Because of his office, he had to make frequent trips to Italy, England,
Germany and Spain. Forced abandonment of contemplative stillness
weighed on him. He confessed: "I go from one place to another, I am
anxious, disturbed, tormented, dragged here and there; my mind is
turned now to my affairs, now to those of others, not without great
agitation to my spirit". Although having to maneuver between the powers
and lordships that surrounded Cluny, nevertheless, thanks to his sense
of measure, his magnanimity and his realism, he succeeded in keeping
his habitual tranquility. Among the personalities with whom he
interacted was Bernard of Clairvaux, with whom he enjoyed a
relationship of growing friendship, despite differences of temperament
and perspectives. Bernard described him as an "important man, occupied
in important affairs" and he greatly esteemed him, whereas Peter the
Venerable described Bernard as "lamp of the Church", "strong and
splendid column of the monastic order and of the whole Church".

With a lively ecclesial sense, Peter the Venerable said that the
affairs of Christian people should be felt in the "depth of the heart"
of those who number themselves "among the members of the Body of
Christ". And he added: "He is not nourished by Christ who does not feel
the wounds of the Body of Christ," wherever these are produced.
Moreover, he showed care and solicitude even for those who were outside
the Church, in particular for the Jews and Muslims: to foster knowledge
of the latter he had the Quran translated. In this regard, a recent
historian observed: "Amid the intransigence of the men of Medieval
times, also among the greatest of them, we admire here a sublime
example of the delicacy to which Christian charity leads" .

Other aspects of Christian life dear to him were love of the Eucharist
and devotion to the Virgin Mary. On the Most Holy Sacrament he has left
us pages that are "one of the masterpieces of Eucharistic literature of
all times", and on the Mother of God he wrote illuminating reflections,
always contemplating her in close relationship with Jesus the Redeemer
and his work of salvation. Suffice it to report this inspired elevation
of his: "Hail, Blessed Virgin, who put malediction to flight. Hail,
Mother of the Most High, spouse of the most meek Lamb. You conquered
the serpent, you have crushed his head, when the God generated by you
annihilated him ... Shining star of the East, who puts to flight the
shadows of the West. Dawn that precedes the sun, day that ignores the
night ... Pray to God born from you, so that he will absolve us from
our sin and, after forgiveness, grant us grace and glory".

Peter the Venerable also nourished a predilection for literary activity
and he had the talent. He wrote down his reflections, persuaded of the
importance of using the pen almost like a plough "to scatter on paper
the seed of the Word". Although he was not a systematic theologian, he
was a great researcher of the mystery of God. His theology sinks its
roots in prayer, especially the liturgy, and among the mysteries of
Christ he favored the Transfiguration, in which the Resurrection is
already prefigured. It was in fact he who introduced this feast at
Cluny, composing a special office for it, in which is reflected the
characteristic theological piety of Peter and of the Cluniac Order,
wholly set to the contemplation of the glorious face (gloriosa facies)
of Christ, finding there the reasons for that ardent joy that marked
his spirit and was radiated in the liturgy of the monastery.

Dear brothers and sisters, this holy monk is certainly a great example
of monastic sanctity, nourished at the sources of the Benedictine
tradition. For him, the ideal of the monk consisted in "adhering
tenaciously to Christ", in a cloistered life marked by "monastic
humility" and industriousness, as well as by a climate of silent
contemplation and constant praise of God. According to Peter of Cluny,
the first and most important occupation of a monk is the solemn
celebration of the Divine Office - "heavenly work and of all the most
useful" - to be supported with reading, meditation, personal prayer and
penance observed with discretion.

In this way the whole of life is pervaded by profound love of God and
love of others, a love that is expressed in sincere openness to one's
neighbor, in forgiveness and in the pursuit of peace. By way of
conclusion, we could say that if this style of life joined to daily
work is, for St. Benedict, the ideal of the monk, it also concerns all
of us; it can be, to a great extent, the style of life of the Christian
who wants to become a genuine disciple of Christ, characterized in fact
by tenacious adherence to him, by humility, by industriousness and the
capacity to forgive, and by peace.

Dear Brothers and Sisters,

Our catechesis today considers an outstanding churchman of the early
twelfth century, Peter the Venerable, abbot of Cluny. Despite his
pressing responsibilities and frequent travels in the service of the
Church, Peter maintained a contemplative spirit, deep inner
tranquility, rigorous asceticism and a capacity for warm friendships.
His ability to combine love of God with sincere love of neighbor found
expression in a lively sense of the Church. He urged all the members of
Christ's Body to be concerned for the trials and difficulties of the
universal Church, and he expressed an interest in those outside the
Church, specifically Jews and Muslims, in ways which were remarkable
for his day. Prayer stood at the heart of Peter's theology and
spirituality, which were nourished by the monastic liturgy and
meditation on the mysteries of Christ's life. At Cluny he introduced
the feast of the Transfiguration and composed its prayers, centered on
the contemplation of the glorious face of Christ. By his ability to
combine prayer and contemplation with love of neighbor and a commitment
to the renewal of society, Peter the Venerable reflected the
Benedictine ideal and serves as an example to Christian today in their
efforts to live holy and integrated lives in our often stressful
society.

