____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 13 December 2006 - Saints Timothy
and Titus

[10]illustration of the martyrdom of Saint Timothy, from 'Pictorial
Lives of the Saints', 1892 [11]Saint Timothy Having spoken at length on
the great Apostle Paul, today let us look at his two closest
collaborators: Timothy and Titus. Three Letters traditionally
attributed to Paul are addressed to them, two to Timothy and one to
Titus.

Timothy is a Greek name which means "one who honours God". Whereas Luke
mentions him six times in the Acts, Paul in his Letters refers to him
at least 17 times (and his name occurs once in the Letter to the
Hebrews).

One may deduce from this that Paul held him in high esteem, even if
Luke did not consider it worth telling us all about him.

Indeed, the Apostle entrusted Timothy with important missions and saw
him almost as an alter ego, as is evident from his great praise of him
in his Letter to the Philippians. "I have no one like him who will be
genuinely anxious for your welfare" (2:20).

Timothy was born at Lystra (about 200 kilometres northwest of Tarsus)
of a Jewish mother and a Gentile father (cf. Acts 16:1).

The fact that his mother had contracted a mixed-marriage and did not
have her son circumcised suggests that Timothy grew up in a family that
was not strictly observant, although it was said that he was acquainted
with the Scriptures from childhood (cf. II Timothy 3:15). The name of
his mother, Eunice, has been handed down to us, as well as that of his
grandmother, Lois (cf. II Tm 1: 5).

When Paul was passing through Lystra at the beginning of his second
missionary journey, he chose Timothy to be his companion because "he
was well spoken of by the brethren at Lystra and Iconium" (Acts 16: 2),
but he had him circumcised "because of the Jews that were in those
places" (Acts 16: 3).

Together with Paul and Silas, Timothy crossed Asia Minor as far as
Troy, from where he entered Macedonia. We are informed further that at
Philippi, where Paul and Silas were falsely accused of disturbing
public order and thrown into prison for having exposed the exploitation
of a young girl who was a soothsayer by several unscrupulous
individuals (cf. Acts 16: 16-40), Timothy was spared.

When Paul was then obliged to proceed to Athens, Timothy joined him in
that city and from it was sent out to the young Church of Thessalonica
to obtain news about her and to strengthen her in the faith (cf. I Thes
3: 1-2). He then met up with the Apostle in Corinth, bringing him good
news about the Thessalonians and working with him to evangelize that
city (cf. II Cor 1: 19).

We find Timothy at Ephesus during Paul's third missionary journey. It
was probably from there that the Apostle wrote to Philemon and to the
Philippians; he sent both Letters jointly with Timothy (cf. Phlm 1;
Phil 1: 1).

From Ephesus, Paul sent Timothy to Macedonia, together with a certain
Erastus (cf. Acts 19: 22), and then also to Corinth with the mission of
taking a letter to the Corinthians, in which he recommended that they
welcome him warmly (cf. I Corinthians 4:17; 16:10-11).

We encounter him again as the joint sender of the Second Letter to the
Corinthians, and when Paul wrote the Letter to the Romans from Corinth
he added Timothy's greetings as well as the greetings of the others
(cf. Romans 16:21).

From Corinth, the disciple left for Troy on the Asian coast of the
Aegean See and there awaited the Apostle who was bound for Jerusalem at
the end of his third missionary journey (cf. Acts 20: 4).

From that moment in Timothy's biography, the ancient sources mention
nothing further to us, except for a reference in the Letter to the
Hebrews which says: "You should understand that our brother Timothy has
been released, with whom I shall see you if he comes soon" (13: 23).

To conclude, we can say that the figure of Timothy stands out as a very
important pastor.

According to the later Storia Ecclesiastica by Eusebius, Timothy was
the first Bishop of Ephesus (cf. 3, 4). Some of his relics, brought
from Constantinople, were found in Italy in 1239 in the Cathedral of
Termoli in the Molise.

Then, as regards the figure of Titus, whose name is of Latin origin, we
know that he was Greek by birth, that is, a pagan (cf. Gal 2: 3). Paul
took Titus with him to Jerusalem for the so-called Apostolic Council,
where the preaching of the Gospel to the Gentiles that freed them from
the constraints of Mosaic Law was solemnly accepted.

In the Letter addressed to Titus, the Apostle praised him and described
him as his "true child in a common faith" (Ti 1: 4). After Timothy's
departure from Corinth, Paul sent Titus there with the task of bringing
that unmanageable community to obedience.

Titus restored peace between the Church of Corinth and the Apostle, who
wrote to this Church in these terms: "But God, who comforts the
downcast, comforted us by the coming of Titus, and not only by his
coming but also by the comfort with which he was comforted in you, as
he told us of your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me.... And
besides our own comfort we rejoiced still more at the joy of Titus,
because his mind has been set at rest by you all" (II Cor 7: 6-7, 13).

From Corinth, Titus was again sent out by Paul - who called him "my
partner and fellow worker in your service" (II Cor 8: 23) - to organize
the final collections for the Christians of Jerusalem (cf. II Cor 8:
6).

Further information from the Pastoral Letters describes him as Bishop
of Crete (cf. Ti 1: 5), from which, at Paul's invitation, he joined the
Apostle at Nicopolis in Epirus (cf. Ti 3: 12). Later, he also went to
Dalmatia (cf. II Tm 4: 10). We lack any further information on the
subsequent movements of Titus or on his death.

To conclude, if we consider together the two figures of Timothy and
Titus, we are aware of certain very significant facts. The most
important one is that in carrying out his missions, Paul availed
himself of collaborators. He certainly remains the Apostle par
excellence, founder and pastor of many Churches.

Yet it clearly appears that he did not do everything on his own but
relied on trustworthy people who shared in his endeavours and
responsibilities.

Another observation concerns the willingness of these collaborators.
The sources concerning Timothy and Titus highlight their readiness to
take on various offices that also often consisted in representing Paul
in circumstances far from easy. In a word, they teach us to serve the
Gospel with generosity, realizing that this also entails a service to
the Church herself.

Lastly, let us follow the recommendation that the Apostle Paul makes to
Titus in the Letter addressed to him: "I desire you to insist on these
things, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to apply
themselves to good deeds; these are excellent and profitable to men"
(Ti 3: 8).

Through our commitment in practice we can and must discover the truth
of these words, and precisely in this Season of Advent, we too can be
rich in good deeds and thus open the doors of the world to Christ, our
Saviour.

