____________________

[8]Pope Saint Callistus I - Second Epistle

1. Callistus
to our most dearly beloved brethren, all the bishops settled throughout
Gaul.

By the report of very many, we learn that your love, by the zeal of the
Holy Spirit, holds and guides the helm of the Church so firmly in the
face of all assaults, that by God's will it is conscious neither of
shipwreck nor of the losses of shipwreck. Rejoicing, therefore, in such
testimonies, we beg you not to permit anything to be done in those
parts contrary to the apostolic statutes; but, supported by our
authority, do ye check what is injurious, and prohibit what is
unlawful.

I. Now we have heard that the crime of conspiracies prevails in your
parts, and it has been shown us that the people are conspiring against
their bishops; of which crime the craft is hateful, not only among
Christians, but even among the heathen, and it is forbidden by foreign
laws. And therefore the laws not only of the Church, but of the world,
condemn those who are guilty of this crime; and not only those indeed
who actually conspire, but those also who take part with such. Our
predecessors, moreover, together with a very numerous body of bishops,
ordained that any guilty of this offence among those who are set in the
honour of the priesthood, and who belong to the clergy, should be
deprived of the honour which they enjoy; and they ordered that others
should be cut off from communion, and expelled from the Church; and
they decreed, at the same time, that all men of both orders should be
infamous (infames); and that, too, not only for those who did the deed,
but for those also who took part with such. For it is but equitable
that those who despise the divine mandates, and prove themselves
disobedient to the ordinances of the fathers, should be chastised with
severer penalties, in order that others may fear to do such things, and
that all may rejoice in brotherly concord, and all take to themselves
the example of severity and goodness. For if (which may God forbid) we
neglect the care of the Church, and are regardless of its strength, our
slothfulness will destroy discipline, and injury will be done assuredly
to the souls of the faithful. Such persons, moreover, are not to be
admitted to accuse any one: neither can their voice, nor that of those
who are under the ban, injure or criminate any man.

II. Those, too, who are excommunicated by the priests, let no one
receive previous to the just examination of both sides; nor let him
have any intercourse with such in speech, or in eating or drinking, or
in the salutation with the kiss, nor let him greet such; because,
whosoever wittingly holds intercourse with the excommunicated in these
or other prohibited matters, will subject himself, according to the
ordinance of the apostles, to like excommunication. From these,
therefore, let clergy and laity keep themselves if they would not have
the same penalty to endure. Also do not join the unbelievers, neither
have any fellowship with them. They who do such things, indeed, are
judged not as believers, but as unbelievers. Whence the apostle says:
"What part hath he that believeth with an infidel? or what fellowship
hath righteousness with unrighteousness?"

III. Let no one, again, trespass upon the boundaries of another, nor
presume to judge or excommunicate one belonging to another's parish;
because such judgment or ordination, or excommunication or
condemnation, shall neither be ratified nor have any virtue; since no
one shall be bound by the decision of another judge than his own,
neither shall he be condemned by such. Whence also the Lord speaks to
this effect: "Pass not the ancient landmarks which thy fathers have
set." Moreover, let no primate or metropolitan invade the church or
parish of a diocesan (dioecesani), or presume to excommunicate or judge
any one belonging to his parish, or do anything without his counsel or
judgment; but let him observe this law, which has been laid down by the
apostles and fathers, and our predecessors, and has been ratified by
us: to wit, that if any metropolitan bishop, except in that which
pertains to his own proper parish alone, shall attempt to do anything
without the counsel and good-will of all the comprovincial bishops, he
will do it at the risk of his position, and what he does in this manner
shall be held null and void; but whatever it may be necessary to do or
to arrange with regard to the cases of the body of provincial bishops,
and the necessities of their churches and clergy and laity, this should
be done by consent of all the pontiffs of the same province, and that
too without any pride of lordship, but with the most humble and
harmonious action, even as the Lord says: "I came not to be ministered
unto, but to minister." And in another passage He says: "And whosoever
of you is the greater, shall be your servant," and so forth. And in
like manner the bishops of the same province themselves should do all
things in counsel with him, except so much as pertains to their own
proper parishes, in accordance with the statutes of the holy fathers
(who, although they have preceded us by a certain interval of time,
have yet drawn the light of truth and faith from one and the same
fountain of purity, and have sought the prosperity of the Church of God
and the common advantage of all Christians by the same enlightening and
guiding Spirit), that with one mind, and one mouth, and one accord, the
Holy Trinity may be glorified for ever. No primate, no metropolitan,
nor any of the other bishops, is at liberty to enter the seat of
another, or to occupy a possession which does not pertain to him, and
which forms part of the parish of another bishop, at the direction of
any one, unless he is invited by him to whose jurisdiction it is
acknowledged to belong; nor can he set about any arrangement or
ordinance, or judgment there, if he wishes to keep the honour of his
station. But if he presume to do otherwise, he shall be condemned; and
not only he, but those who co-operate and agree with him: for just as
the power of making appointments (ordinatio) is interdicted in such
circumstances, so also is the power of judging or of disposing of other
matters. For if a man has no power to appoint, how shall he judge?
Without doubt, he shall in no wise judge or have power to judge: for
just as another man's wife cannot intermarry with anyone (adulterari),
nor be judged or disposed of by any one but by her own husband so long
as he liveth; so neither can it in anywise be allowed that the wife of
a bishop, by whom undoubtedly is meant his church or parish, should be
judged or disposed of by another without his (the bishop's) judgment
and good-will so long as he liveth, or enjoy another's embrace, that
is, his ordaining. Wherefore the apostle says: "The wife is bound by
the law so long as her husband liveth; but if he be dead, she is loosed
from the law of her husband." In like manner also, the spouse of a
bishop (for the church is called his spouse and wife) is bound to him
while he liveth; but when he is dead she is loosed, and may be wedded
to whomsoever she will, only in the Lord, that is, according to order.
For if, while he is alive, she marry another, she shall be judged to be
an adulteress. And in the same manner, he too, if he marry another of
his own will, shall be held to be an adulterer, and shall be deprived
of the privilege of communion. If, however, he is persecuted in his own
church, he must flee to another, and attach himself to it, as the Lord
says: "If they persecute you in one city, flee ye into another." If,
however, the change be made for the sake of the good of the church, he
may not do this of himself, but only on the invitation of the brethren,
and with the sanction of this holy seat, and not for ambition's sake,
but for the public good.

IV. Moreover, marriages among blood-relations are forbidden, since all
laws, both sacred and secular, forbid such. Wherefore the divine laws
not only expel, but even anathematize, those who do so, and those who
spring from them. Secular laws, again, call such persons infamous, and
interdict them from inheriting. And we too, following our fathers, and
keeping close by their footsteps, brand such with infamy, and hold them
to be infamous, because they are sprinkled with the stains of infamy.
Neither ought we to admit those men or their accusations, that secular
laws reject. (For who doubts that human laws, when they are not
inconsistent with reason and honour, are to be embraced, especially
when they either further the public good or defend the authority of the
ecclesiastical office, and uphold it as a help?) And we call those
blood-relations whom divine laws, and those of the emperors, both Roman
and Greek, name blood-relations, and whom they admit to the right of
inheriting, and cannot exclude from that. Marriages, then, between such
are neither lawful nor capable of holding good, but are to be rejected.
(And if any such are attempted in rash daring, they come to be
rescinded by apostolic authority.)

V. Whosoever, therefore, has not been lawfully married, or has been
united without the dotal title (dotali titulo) and the blessing of a
priest, cannot by any means bring a charge against priests, or those
who are lawfully married, or bear witness against them, since every one
who is polluted with the stain of incest is infamous, and is not
allowed to accuse the above-named. And consequently not only they, but
all those too who agree with them, are to be rejected, and are rendered
infamous. We hold that the same should also be the case with robbers,
or with those who assault the elderly. The laws of the world, indeed,
put such persons to death; but we, with whom mercy has the first place,
receive them under the mark of infamy to repentance. That infamy also
with which they are stained, we are not able to remove; but our desire
is to heal their souls by public penitence, and by satisfaction made to
the Church: for public sins are not to be purged by secret correction.
Those, again, who are suspected in the matter of the right faith,
should by no means be admitted to prefer charges against priests, and
against those of whose faith there is no doubt; and such persons should
be held of doubtful authority in matters of human testimony. Their
voice, consequently, should bereckoned invalid whose faith is doubted;
and no credit should be given to those who are ignorant of the right
faith. Accordingly, in judgment, inquiry should be made as to the
conversation and faith of the person who accuses, and of him who is
accused; since those who are not of correct conversation and faith, and
whose life is open to impeachment, are not allowed to accuse their
eiders, neither can such permission be given to those whose faith and
life and liberty are unknown. Nor should vile persons be admitted to
accuse them. But a clear examination is to be made as to what kind of
persons the accusers are (rimandoesunt enucleatim personaeaccusatorum);
for they are not to be admitted readily without writing, and are never
to be admitted as accusers on mere writing. For no one may either
accuse or be accused by mere writing, but with the living voice; and
every one must lay his accusation in the presence of him whom he seeks
to accuse. And no credit should be given to any accuser in the absence
of him whom he seeks to accuse. In like manner, witnesses must not
prefer their evidence by writing only; but they must give their
testimony truthfully in their own persons, and in matters which they
have seen and do know. And they are not to give evidence in any other
cases or matters but in those which are known to have happened in their
presence. Accusers, moreover, of one blood, are not to bear witness
against those who are not related to the family, nor is that to be the
case with domestics (familiares) or those proceeding from the house;
but if it is their wish, and they agree among themselves, the parents
only should give evidence in such cases, and not others. Neither
accusers nor witnesses should be admitted who are open to any
suspicion; for the feeling of relationship, or friendship, or lordship,
is wont to impede the truth. Carnal love, and fear, and avarice,
commonly blunt the perceptions of men, and pervert their opinions; so
that they look on gain as godliness, and on money as the reward of
prudence. Let no one, then, speak deceitfully to his neighbour. The
mouth of the malevolent is a deep pit. The innocent man, while he
believes easily, falls readily; but though he falls, he rises; and the
shuffler, with all his arts, goes headlong to ruin, whence he can never
rise or escape. Therefore let every one weigh well his words, and let
him not say to another what he would not say to himself. Whence the
sacred Scripture says well:

  "Do not that to another which thou wouldest not have done to
  thyself."

For we need time to do anything perfectly (maturius); and let us not be
precipitate in our counsels or our works, neither let us violate order.
But if any one has fallen in anything, let us not consign him to ruin;
but let us reprove him with brotherly affection, as the blessed apostle
says:

  "If a man be overtaken in any fault, ye which are spiritual restore
  such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering thyself, test
  thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another's burden, and so will ye
  fulfil the law of Christ."

Furthermore, the sainted David had deadly crimes to repent of, and yet
he was continued in honour. The blessed Peter also shed the bitterest
tears when he repented of having denied the Lord; but still he abode an
apostle. And the Lord by the prophet makes this promise to the sinning:

  "In the day that the sinner is converted, and repenteth, I will not
  mention any more against him all his transgressions."

VI. For those are in error who think that the priests of the Lord,
after a lapse, although they may have exhibited true repentance, are
not capable of ministering to the Lord, and engaging their honourable
offices, though they may lead a good life thereafter, and keep their
priesthood correctly. And those who hold this opinion are not only in
error, but also seem to dispute and act in opposition to the power of
the keys committed to the Church, whereof it is said:

  "Whatsoever ye shall loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven."

And in short, this opinion either is not the Lord's, or it is true. But
be that as it may, we believe without hesitation, that both the priests
of the Lord and other believers may return to their honours after a
proper satisfaction for their error, as the Lord Himself testifies by
His prophet:

  "Shall he who falls not also rise again? and shall he who turns away
  not return?"

And in another passage the Lord says:

  "I desire not the death of the sinner, but that he may turn, and
  live."

And the prophet David, on his repentance, said:

  "Restore unto me the joy of Thy salvation, and uphold me with Thy
  free Spirit."

And he indeed, after his repentance, taught others also, and offered
sacrifice to God, giving thereby an example to the teachers of the holy
Church, that if they have fallen, and thereafter have exhibited a right
repentance to God, they may do both things in like manner. For he
taught when he said:

  "I will teach transgressors Thy ways, and sinners shall be converted
  unto Thee."

And he offered sacrifice for himself, while he said:

  "The sacrifice for God is a broken spirit."

For the prophet, seeing his own transgressions purged by repentance,
had no doubt as to healing those of others by preaching, and by making
offering to God. Thus the shedding of tears moves the mind's feeling
(passionem). And when the satisfaction is made good, the mind is turned
aside from anger. For how does that man think that mercy will be shown
to himself, who does not forgive his neighbour? If offences abound,
then, let mercy also abound; for with the Lord there is mercy, and with
Him is plenteous redemption. In the Lord's hand there is abundance of
all things, because He is the Lord of powers (virtutum) and the King of
glory. For the apostle says: "All have sinned, and come short of the
glory of God; being justified freely by His grace, through the
redemption that is in Jesus Christ: whom God hath set forth to be a
propitiation through faith in His blood, to declare His righteousness
for the remission of sins that are past, through the forbearance of
God; to declare,

  "I say, at this time His righteousness, that He might be just, and
  the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus."

And David says:

  "Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are
  covered."

Man, therefore, is cleansed of his sin, and rises again by the grace of
God though he has fallen, and abides in his first position, according
to the above-cited authorities. Let him see to it that he sin no more,
that the sentence of the Gospel may abide in him:

  "Go, and sin no more."

Whence the apostle says:

  "Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should
  obey the lusts thereof: neither yield ye your members as instruments
  of unrighteousness unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those
  that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of
  righteousness unto God. For sin shall not have dominion over you:
  for ye are not under the law, but under grace. What then? shall we
  sin because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid.
  Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his
  servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of
  obedience unto righteousness? But God be thanked, that ye were the
  servants of sin; but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of
  doctrine which was delivered you. Being then made free from sin, ye
  became the servants of righteousness. I speak after the manner of
  men."

For greater is the sin of him who judgeth, than of him who is judged.

  "Thinkest thou," says the apostle, "O man, that judgest them that do
  such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment
  of God? or despisest thou the riches of His goodness, and
  forbearance, and long-suffering? Dost thou not know that the
  goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? But, after thy hardness
  and impenitent heart, thou treasurest up unto thyself wrath against
  the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God;
  who will render to every man according to his deeds: to them who, by
  patient continuance in well-doing, seek for glory, and honour, and
  immortality, eternal life; but unto them that are contentious, and
  do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and
  wrath, tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that doeth
  evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Greek: but glory, honour,
  and peace, to every man that worketh good."

My brethren, shun not only the holding, but even the hearing, of the
judgment that bans mercy; for better is mercy than all whole
burnt-offerings and sacrifices. We have replied to your interrogations
shortly, because your letter found us burdened overmuch, and
preoccupied with other judgments.

Given on the 8th day of October, in the consulship of the most
illustrious Antonine and Alexander.

 - translated by Reverend S.D.F. Salmond; downloaded from the Christian
                                              Classics Ethereal Library

