____________________

[8]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 18 April 2007 - Saint Clement of
Alexandria

[9]illustration of Saint Clement of Alexandria from Les vrais
pourtraits et vies des hommes illustres grecz, latins et payens (1584)
by André Thevet; swiped from Wikimedia Commons Saint Clement of
Alexandria

Dear Brothers and Sisters,

After the period of celebrations, let us return to our normal
Catecheses even if it is still visibly festive in the Square.

With the Catecheses we are returning, as I said, to the series begun
previously. We have already spoken of the Twelve Apostles, then of the
disciples of the Apostles and now of the important figures in the
newborn Church, the ancient Church.

At the last one, we spoke of St Irenaeus of Lyons; today, let us speak
of Clement of Alexandria, a great theologian who was probably born in
Athens at around the middle of the second century.

From Athens he inherited that marked interest in philosophy which was
to make him one of the pioneers of the dialogue between faith and
reason in the Christian tradition. While he was still young, he arrived
in Alexandria, the "city-symbol" of that fertile junction between the
different cultures that was a feature of the Hellenistic age.

He was a disciple of Pantaenus until he succeeded him as head of the
catechetical school. Many sources testify that he was ordained a
priest. During the persecution of 202-203, he fled from Alexandria,
seeking refuge in Caesarea, Cappadocia, where he died in about 215.

Of his most important works three are extant: the Protrepticus, the
Paedagogus and the Stromata. Although it does not seem that this was
the author's original intention, it is a fact that these writings
constitute a true trilogy, destined to effectively accompany the
Christian's spiritual growth.

The Protrepticus, as the word itself suggests, is an "exhortation"
addressed to those who are starting out and seek the path of faith.
Better still, the Protrepticus coincides with a Person: the Son of God,
Jesus Christ, who makes himself the exhorter of men and women so that
they will set out towards the Truth with determination.

Jesus Christ himself becomes the Paedagogus, that is, the "tutor" of
those who, by virtue of Baptism, have henceforth become children of
God.

Lastly, Jesus Christ himself is also the Didascalos, the "Master" who
presents the most profound teachings. These are gathered in Clement's
third work, the Stromata, a Greek term which means "tapestries":
indeed, they are a random composition of different topics, direct
fruits of Clement's customary teaching.

Overall, Clement's catecheses accompanied the catechumens and the
baptized step by step on their way, so that with the two "wings" of
faith and reason they might reach intimate knowledge of the Truth which
is Jesus Christ, the Word of God. Only this knowledge of the Person who
is truth is the "true gnosis, a Greek term which means "knowledge",
"understanding". It is the edifice built by reason under the impetus of
a supernatural principle.

Faith itself builds true philosophy, that is, true conversion on the
journey to take through life. Hence, authentic "gnosis" is a
development of faith inspired by Jesus Christ in the soul united with
him. Clement then distinguishes two steps in Christian life.

The first step: believing Christians who live the faith in an ordinary
way, yet are always open to the horizons of holiness. Then the second
step: "gnostics", that is, those who lead a life of spiritual
perfection.

In any case, Christians must start from the common basis of faith
through a process of seeking; they must allow themselves to be guided
by Christ and thus attain knowledge of the Truth and of truth that
forms the content of faith.

This knowledge, Clement says, becomes a living reality in the soul: it
is not only a theory, it is a life force, a transforming union of love.
Knowledge of Christ is not only thought, but is love which opens the
eyes, transforms the person and creates communion with the Logos, with
the Divine Word who is truth and life. In this communion, which is
perfect knowledge and love, the perfect Christian attains
contemplation, unification with God.

Finally, Clement espouses the doctrine which claims that man's ultimate
end is to liken himself to God. We were created in the image and
likeness of God, but this is also a challenge, a journey: indeed,
life's purpose, its ultimate destination, is truly to become similar to
God. This is possible through the co-naturality with him which man
received at the moment of creation, which is why, already in himself -
already in himself - he is an image of God. This co-naturality makes it
possible to know the divine realities to which man adheres, first of
all out of faith, and through a lived faith the practice of virtue can
grow until one contemplates God.

On the path to perfection, Clement thus attaches as much importance to
the moral requisite as he gives to the intellectual. The two go hand in
hand, for it is impossible to know without living and impossible to
live without knowing.

Becoming likened to God and contemplating him cannot be attained with
purely rational knowledge: to this end, a life in accordance with the
Logos is necessary, a life in accordance with truth. Consequently, good
works must accompany intellectual knowledge just as the shadow follows
the body.

Two virtues above all embellish the soul of the "true gnostic". The
first is freedom from the passions (apátheia); the other is love, the
true passion that assures intimate union with God. Love gives perfect
peace and enables "the true gnostic" to face the greatest sacrifices,
even the supreme sacrifice in following Christ, and makes him climb
from step to step to the peak of virtue.

Thus, the ethical ideal of ancient philosophy, that is, liberation from
the passions, is defined by Clement and conjugated with love, in the
ceaseless process of making oneself similar to God. In this way the
Alexandrian creates the second important occasion for dialogue between
the Christian proclamation and Greek philosophy.

We know that St Paul, at the Aeropagus in Athens where Clement was
born, had made the first attempt at dialogue with Greek philosophy -
and by and large had failed - but they said to him: "We will hear you
again".

Clement now takes up this dialogue and ennobles it to the maximum in
the Greek philosophical tradition.

As my venerable Predecessor John Paul II wrote in his Encyclical Fides
et Ratio, Clement of Alexandria understood philosophy "as instruction
which prepared for Christian faith" (n. 38). And in fact, Clement
reached the point of maintaining that God gave philosophy to the Greeks
"as their own Testament" (Strom. 6, 8, 67, 1).

For him, the Greek philosophical tradition, almost like the Law for the
Jews, was a sphere of "revelation"; they were two streams which flowed
ultimately to the Logos himself.

Thus, Clement continued to mark out with determination the path of
those who desire "to account" for their own faith in Jesus Christ. He
can serve as an example to Christians, catechists and theologians of
our time, whom, in the same Encyclical, John Paul II urged "to recover
and express to the full the metaphysical dimension of faith in order to
enter into a demanding critical dialogue with both contemporary
philosophical thought and with the philosophical tradition in all its
aspects".

Let us conclude by making our own a few words from the famous "prayer
to Christ the Logos" with which Clement concludes his Paedagogus. He
implores: "Be gracious... to us your children.... Grant us that we may
live in your peace, be transferred to your city, sail over the billows
of sin without capsizing, be gently wafted by your Holy Spirit, by
ineffable Wisdom, by night and day to the perfect day... giving thanks
and praise to the one Father... to the Son, Instructor and Teacher,
with the Holy Spirit. Amen!" (Paed. 3, 12, 101).

