____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 18 August 2010 - Saint Pius the
Tenth

[10]Pope Saint Pius X, 1895 Today I would like to reflect on my
Predecessor, Saint Pius X whose liturgical Memorial we shall be
celebrating next Saturday and to underline certain features that may be
useful to both Pastors and faithful also in our time.

Giuseppe Sarto, that was his name, was born into a peasant family in
Riese, Treviso, in 1835. After studying at the Seminary in Padua he was
ordained a priest when he was 23 years old. He was first curate in
Tombolo, then parish priest at Salzano and then canon of the Cathedral
of Treviso with the offices of episcopal chancellor and spiritual
director of the Diocesan Seminary. In these years of rich and generous
pastoral experience, the future Pontiff showed that deep love for
Christ and for the Church, that humility and simplicity and great
charity to the needy which characterized his entire life. In 1884 he
was appointed Bishop of Mantua, and in 1893, Patriarch of Venice. On 4
August 1903, he was elected Pope, a ministry he hesitated to accept
since he did not consider himself worthy of such a lofty office.

Pius X's Pontificate left an indelible mark on the Church's history and
was distinguished by a considerable effort for reform that is summed up
in his motto: Instaurare Omnia in Christo, "To renew all things in
Christ". Indeed, his interventions involved various ecclesiastical
contexts. From the outset he devoted himself to reorganizing the Roman
Curia; he then began work on the Code of Canon Law which was
promulgated by his Successor Benedict XV. He later promoted the
revision of the studies and formation programme of future priests and
founded various Regional Seminaries, equipped with good libraries and
well-qualified teachers. Another important sector was that of the
doctrinal formation of the People of God. Beginning in his years as
parish priest, he himself had compiled a catechism and during his
Episcopate in Mantua he worked to produce a single, if not universal
catechism, at least in Italian. As an authentic Pastor he had
understood that the situation in that period, due partly to the
phenomenon of emigration, made necessary a catechism to which every
member of the faithful might refer, independently of the place in which
he lived and of his position. As Pontiff, he compiled a text of
Christian doctrine for the Diocese of Rome that was later disseminated
throughout Italy and the world. Because of its simple, clear, precise
language and effective explanations, this "Pius X Catechism", as it was
called, was a reliable guide to many in learning the truths of the
faith.

Pius X paid considerable attention to the reform of the Liturgy and, in
particular, of sacred music in order to lead the faithful to a life of
more profound prayer and fuller participation in the Sacraments. In the
Motu Proprio Tra le Sollecitudini (1903), the first year of his
Pontificate, he said that the true Christian spirit has its first and
indispensable source in active participation in the sacrosanct
mysteries and in the public and solemn prayer of the Church (cf. AAS
36[1903], 531). For this reason he recommended that the Sacraments be
received often, encouraging the daily reception of Holy Communion and
appropriately lowering the age when children receive their First
Communion "to about seven", the age "when a child begins to reason"
(cf. S. Congr. de Sacramentis, Decretum Quam Singulari: AAS 2 [1910]
582).

Faithful to the task of strengthening his brethren in the faith, in
confronting certain trends that were manifest in the theological
context at the end of the 19th and the beginning of the 20th centuries,
Pius X intervened decisively, condemning "Modernism" to protect the
faithful from erroneous concepts and to foster a scientific examination
of the Revelation consonant with the Tradition of the Church. On 7 May
1909, with his Apostolic Letter Vinea Electa, he founded the Pontifical
Biblical Institute. The last months of his life were overshadowed by
the impending war. His appeal to Catholics of the world, launched on 2
August 1914 to express the bitter pain of the present hour, was the
anguished plea of a father who sees his children taking sides against
each other. He died shortly afterwards, on 20 August, and the fame of
his holiness immediately began to spread among the Christian people.

Dear brothers and sisters, Saint Pius X teaches all of us that at the
root of our apostolic action in the various fields in which we work
there must always be close personal union with Christ, to cultivate and
to develop, day after day. This is the essence of all his teaching, of
all his pastoral commitment. Only if we are in love with the Lord shall
we be able to bring people to God and open them to his merciful love
and thereby open the world to God's mercy.

