____________________

[8]Pope John Paul II - Homily From the Beatification Mass of Blessed Pier
Giorgio Frassati, 20 May 1990

[9]Pope Saint John Paul II

1. "I will ask the Father, and he will send
you another Advocate to be with you always, the Spirit of truth" (Jn
14:16). During the Easter season, as we progressively draw near to
Pentecost, these words become more and more timely. They were spoken by
Jesus in the Upper Room the day before his Passion, as he took leave of
his Apostles. His departure - the departure of the Beloved Master
through his death and resurrection - prepares the way for another
Advocate (Jn 16:7). The Paraclete will come; he will come precisely
because of Christ's redemptive departure which makes possible and
inaugurates God's new merciful presence among people. The Spirit of
Truth, whom the world neither sees nor knows, however, makes itself
known by the Apostles, because "it remains with them and will be in
them" (cf. Jn 14:17). And everyone will become witnesses to this on the
day of Pentecost.


2. [10]Blessed Pier Giorgio Frassati

Pentecost, however, is only the
beginning, because the Spirit of Truth comes to remain with the Church
for ever (cf. Jn 14:16), endlessly renewing itself in future
generations. Therefore the words of the Apostle Peter are addressed not
only to the people of his day, but also to all of us and our
contemporaries. "Sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts. Always be
ready to give an explanation to anyone who asks you for a reason for
your hope" (1 Peter 3:15). In our century, Pier Giorgio Frassati
incarnated these words of Saint Peter in his own life. The power of the
Spirit of Truth, united to Christ, made him a modern witness to the
hope which springs from the Gospel and to the grace of salvation which
works in human hearts. Thus he became a living witness and courageous
defender of this hope in the name of Christian youth of the twentieth
century.

3. Faith and charity, the true driving forces of his existence, made
him active and diligent in the milieu in which he lived, in his family
and school, in the university and society; they transformed him into a
joyful, enthusiastic apostle of Christ, a passionate follower of his
message and charity. The secret of his apostolic zeal and holiness is
to be sought in the ascetical and spiritual journey which he traveled;
in prayer, in persevering adoration, even at night, of the Blessed
Sacrament, in his thirst for the Word of God, which he sought in
Biblical texts; in the peaceful acceptance of life's difficulties, in
family life as well; in chastity lived as a cheerful, uncompromising
discipline; in his daily love of silence and life's "ordinariness." It
is precisely in these factors that we are given to understand the deep
well-spring of his spiritual vitality. Indeed, it is through the
Eucharist that Christ communicates his Spirit; it is through listening
to the word that the readiness to welcome others grows, and it is also
through prayerful abandonment to God's will that life's great decisions
mature. Only by adoring God who is present in his or her own heart can
the baptized Christian respond to the person who "asks you for a reason
for your hope" (1 Pt 3:15). And the young Frassati knew it, felt it,
lived it. In his life, faith was fused with charity: firm in faith and
active in charity, because without works, faith is dead (cf. James
2:20).

4. Certainly, at a superficial glance, Frassati's lifestyle, that of a
modern young man who was full of life, does not present anything out of
the ordinary. This, however, is the originality of his virtue, which
invites us to reflect upon it and impels us to imitate it. In him faith
and daily events are harmoniously fused, so that adherence to the
Gospel is translated into loving care for the poor and the needy in a
continual crescendo until the very last days of the sickness which led
to his death. His love for beauty and art, his passion for sports and
mountains, his attention to society's problems did not inhibit his
constant relationship with the Absolute. Entirely immersed in the
mystery if God and totally dedicated to the constant service of his
neighbor: thus we can sum up his earthly life!

He fulfilled his vocation as a lay Christian in many associative and
political involvements in a society in ferment, a society which was
indifferent and sometimes even hostile to the Church. In this spirit,
Pier Giorgio succeeded in giving new impulse to various Catholic
movements, which he enthusiastically joined, but especially to Catholic
Action, as well as Federation of Italian Catholic University Students
[FUCI], in which he found the true gymnasium of his Christian training
and the right fields of his apostolate. In Catholic Action he joyfully
and proudly lived his Christian vocation and strove to love Jesus and
to see in him the brothers and sisters whom he met on his way or whom
he actively sought in their places of suffering, marginalization and
isolation, in order to help them feel the warmth of his human
solidarity and the supernatural comfort of faith in Christ.

He died young, at the end of a short life, but one which was
extraordinarily filled with spiritual fruits, setting out for his "true
homeland and singing God's praises."

5. Today's celebration invites all of us to receive the message which
Pier Giorgio Frassati is sending to the men and women of our day, but
especially to you young people, who want to make a concrete
contribution to the spiritual renewal of our world, which sometimes
seems to be falling apart and wasting away because of a lack of ideals.
By his example he proclaims that a life lived in Christ's Spirit, the
Spirit of the Beatitudes, is "blessed", and that only the person who
becomes a "man or woman of the Beatitudes" can succeed in communicating
love and peace to others. He repeats that it is really worth giving up
everything to serve the Lord. He testifies that holiness is possible
for everyone, and that only the revolution of charity can enkindle the
hope of a better future in the hearts of people.

6. Yes, "tremendous are the deeds of the LordS. Shout joyfully to God
all you on earth" (Ps 66:1-3). The verse of the Psalm resound in this
Sunday liturgy as a living echo of young Frassati's soul. Indeed, we
all know how much he loved the world God created! "Come and see the
works of God" (Ps 65/66:5): this is also an invitation which we receive
from his young soul and which is particularly addressed to young
people. Come and see God's "tremendous deeds among men" (ibid.).
Tremendous deeds among men and women! Human eyes -- young, sensitive
eyes -- must be able to admire God's work in the external, visible
world. The eyes of the spirit must be able to turn from this external,
visible world to the inner, invisible one: thus they can reveal to
others the realm of the spirit in which the light of the Word that
enlightens every person is reflected (cf. Jn 1:9). In this light the
Spirit of Truth acts.

7. This is the "inner" person. This is how Pier Giorgio appears to us.
Indeed, his entire life seems to sum up Christ's words which we find in
John's Gospel: "Whoever loves me will keep my word, and my Father will
love him, and we will come and make our dwelling with him" (Jn 14:23).
This is the "inner" person loved by the Father, loved because he or she
has loved much! Is love not possibly what is most needed in our
twentieth century, at its beginning, as well as at its end? Is it
perhaps not true that the only thing that lasts, without ever losing
its validity, is the fact that a person "has loved"?

8. He left this world rather young, but he made a mark upon our entire
century, and not only on our century. He left this world, but in the
Easter power of his Baptism, he can say to everyone, especially to the
young generations of today and tomorrow:

"You will see me, because I live and you will live" (Jn 14:19).

These words were spoken by Jesus Christ when he took leave of his
Apostles before undergoing his Passion. I like to think of them as
forming on the lips of our new Blessed himself as a persuasive
invitation to live from Christ and in Christ. This invitation is still
valid, it is valid today as well, especially for today's young people,
valid for everyone. It is a valid invitation which Pier Giorgio
Frassati has left for us. Amen.

