____________________

[8]Pope Gregory II Invests Boniface with the Pallium, 732

[9]Pope Gregory II Gregory, the servant of the servants of God, to our
most reverend and holy brother Bishop Boniface, sent by this apostolic
Church of God for the enlightenment of the German people who live in
the shadow of death, steeped in error.

It was a source of great satisfaction to us to learn from a repeated
reading of your letter that by the grace of God many heathens have
turned away from error and embraced the truth. And because we are
taught in the parable that he to whom five talents was given gained
also another five, we, and the whole Church with us, congratulate you
on your success. Hence we have sent the sacred pallium to you as a
gift, desiring with the authority of the Apostolic See that you accept
it and wear it; and it is our wish that you be recognized as one of the
archbishops divinely appointed. How you are to use it you will learn
from the instructions of the Apostolic See, namely: you must wear it
only during the celebration of Mass and when in the course of your
episcopal duty you consecrate a bishop.

But since, as you say, you are unable to deal with all the matters
involved in imparting the means of salvation to the multitudes of those
who, by the grace of God, have been converted in those parts, we
command you in virtue of our apostolic authority to consecrate bishops
wherever the faithful have increased. This you must do in accordance
with the sacred canons, choosing men of tried worth so that the dignity
of the episcopate may not fall into disrepute.

As regards the priest whom you say came to us and was absolved from his
nefarious crimes, we would like you to know that he made no confession
to us, nor did he receive [10]absolution so that he could pursue his
lustful desires. If you find that he has fallen into error again we
command you by the authority of the Holy See to correct and discipline
him in accordance with the sacred canons, as also any other person you
should meet like him. For when he came here he said, "I am a priest ",
and he asked for letters of recommendation to our son Charles. We gave
him no other favour. If his conduct is blameworthy we desire you to
shun him, together with the rest.

Those whom you say were baptized by pagans and the case is proved
should be baptized again in the name of the Trinity.

You say, among other things, that some eat wild horses and many eat
tame horses. By no means allow this to happen in future, but suppress
it in every possible way with the help of Christ and impose a suitable
penance upon offenders. It is a filthy and abominable custom.

You ask for advice on the lawfulness of making offerings for the dead.
The teaching of the Church is this-that every man should make offerings
for those who died as true Christians and that the priest should make a
commemoration of them [at Mass]. And although all are liable to fall
into sin, it is fitting that the priest should make a commemoration and
intercede for them. But he is not allowed to do so for those who die in
a state of sin even if they were Christians.

It is our command that those who doubt whether they were baptized or
not should be baptized again, as also those who were baptized by a
priest who sacrifices to Jupiter and partakes of sacrificial offerings.
We decree that each one must keep a record of his consanguinity to the
seventh degree.

If you are able, forbid those whose wives have died to enter into
second marriages.

We declare that no one who has slain his father, mother, brother or
sister can receive the Holy Eucharist except at the point of death. He
must abstain from eating meat and drinking wine as long as he lives. He
must fast on every Monday, Wednesday and Friday and thus with tears
wash away the crime he has committed.

Among other difficulties which you face in those parts, you say that
some of the faithful sell their slaves to be sacrificed by the heathen.
This, above all, we urge you to forbid, for it is a crime against
nature. Therefore, on those who have perpetrated such a crime you must
impose a penance similar to that for culpable homicide.

As often as you consecrate a bishop, let two or three other bishops
join with you so that what you do may be pleasing to God, may be done
with their assistance and sanctioned by their presence.

These matters, dearest brother, we wish you carefully to observe.
Pursue the work of salvation on which you have so piously embarked so
that you may receive from our Lord God the eternal reward of your
labours.

The privilege for which you asked is sent together with this letter. We
pray God that under His protection you may achieve complete success in
turning the heathens from the errors of their ways. May God protect you
from harm, most reverend brother.

