____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 15 December 2010 - Saint Veronica
Giuliani

1. Saint Veronica Giuliani

Today I would like to present a mystic who
did not live in the Middle Ages. She is Saint Veronica Giuliani, a Poor
Clare Capuchin nun. The reason is that 27 December will be the 350th
anniversary of her birth. Città di Castello, the place where she lived
the longest and where she died, as well as Mercatello -- her birthplace
-- and the Diocese of Urbino are celebrating this event with joy.

Indeed, Veronica was born on 27 December 1660 in Mercatello, in the
Metauro Valley to Francesco Giuliani and Benedetta Mancini. She was the
last of seven sisters, three of whom were to embrace the monastic life.

She was given the name "Orsola" [Ursula]. She was seven years old when
her mother died and her father moved to Piacenza as customs
superintendent of the Duchy of Parma. It was in this city that Ursula
felt a growing desire to dedicate her life to Christ. The call to her
became ever more pressing so that, when she was 17, she entered the
strict cloister of the monastery of Capuchin Poor Clares in Città di
Castello. She was to remain here for the rest of her life. Here she
received the name of "Veronica", which means "true image" and she was
in fact to become a true image of the Crucified Christ.

A year later she made her solemn religious profession and the process
of configuration to Christ began for her, through much penance, great
suffering, and several mystic experiences linked to the Passion of
Jesus: being crowned with thorns, the mystical espousal, the wound in
her heart and the stigmata.

In 1716, when she was 56, she became Abbess of the monastery. She was
reconfirmed in this office until her death in 1727, after a very
painful prolonged agony that lasted 33 days and culminated in a joy so
profound that her last words were: "I have found Love, Love has let
himself be seen! This is the cause of my suffering. Tell everyone about
it, tell everyone!" (Summarium Beatificationis, 115-120).

On 9 July she left her earthly dwelling place for the encounter with
God. She was 67 years old; 50 of those years she spent in the monastery
of Città di Castello. She was canonized on May 26, 1893, by Pope
Gregory XVI.

Veronica Giuliani wrote prolifically: letters, autobiographical
reports, poems. However, the main source for reconstructing her thought
is her Diary, which she began in 1693: about 22,000 handwritten pages
that cover a span of 34 years of cloistered life.

Her writing flows spontaneously and continuously. There are no
crossings-out, corrections or punctuation marks in it, nor was the
material divided into chapters or parts according to a plan.

Veronica did not intend to compose a literary work; on the contrary, Fr
Girolamo Bastianelli, a Filippini religious, in agreement with the
diocesan Bishop Antonio Eustachi, obliged her to set down her
experiences in writing.

Saint Veronica has a markedly Christological and spousal spirituality:
She experienced being loved by Christ, her faithful and sincere
Bridegroom, to whom she wished to respond with an ever more involved
and passionate love. She interpreted everything in the key of love and
this imbued her with deep serenity. She lived everything in union with
Christ, for love of him, and with the joy of being able to demonstrate
to him all the love of which a creature is capable.

The Christ to whom Veronica was profoundly united was the suffering
Christ of the Passion, death and Resurrection; it was Jesus in the act
of offering himself to the Father in order to save us.

Her intense and suffering love for the Church likewise stemmed from
this experience, in its dual form of prayer and offering. The Saint
lived in this perspective: she prayed, suffered and sought "holy
poverty", as one "dispossessed" and the loss of self (cf. ibid., III,
523), precisely in order to be like Christ who gave the whole of
himself.

In every page of her writings Veronica commends someone to the Lord,
reinforcing her prayers of intercession with the offering of herself in
every form of suffering. Her heart dilated to embrace all "the needs of
the Holy Church", living anxiously the desire for the salvation of "the
whole world" (ibid., III-IV, passim).

Veronica cried: "O sinners... all men and all women, come to Jesus'
heart; come to be cleansed by his most precious blood.... He awaits you
with open arms to embrace you" (ibid., II, 16-17).

Motivated by ardent love, she gave her sisters in the monastery
attention, understanding and forgiveness. She offered her prayers and
sacrifices for the Pope, for her Bishop, for priests and for all those
in need, including the souls in Purgatory.

She summed up her contemplative mission in these words: "We cannot go
about the world preaching to convert souls but are bound to pray
ceaselessly for all those souls who are offending God... particularly
with our sufferings, that is, with a principle of crucified life"
(ibid., IV, 877). Our Saint conceived this mission as "being in the
midst" of men and God, of sinners and the Crucified Christ.

Veronica lived profound participation in the suffering love of Jesus,
certain that "to suffer with joy" is the "key to love" (cf. ibid., I,
299.417; III, 330.303.871; IV, 192). She emphasizes that Jesus suffers
for humanity's sins, but also for the suffering that his faithful
servants would have to endure down the centuries, in the time of the
Church, precisely because of their solid and consistent faith.

She wrote: "His Eternal Father made them see and feel the extent of all
the suffering that his chosen ones would have to endure, the souls
dearest to him, that is, those who would benefit from his Blood and
from all his sufferings" (ibid., II, 170).

As the Apostle Paul says of himself: "Now I rejoice in my sufferings
for your sake, and in my flesh I complete what is lacking in Christ's
afflictions for the sake of his Body, that is, the Church" (Col 1:24).

Veronica reached the point of asking Jesus to be crucified with him.
"In an instant", she wrote, "I saw five radiant rays issue from his
most holy wounds; and they all shone on my face. And I saw these rays
become, as it were, little tongues of fire. In four of them were the
nails; and in one was the spear, as of gold, red hot and white hot: and
it went straight through my heart, from one side to the other ... and
the nails pierced my hands and feet. I felt great pain but in this same
pain I saw myself, I felt myself totally transformed into God" (Diary,
I, 897).

The Saint was convinced that she was already participating in the
Kingdom of God, but at the same time she invoked all the Saints of the
Blessed Homeland to come to her aid on the earthly journey of her
self-giving while she waited for eternal beatitude; this was her
undying aspiration throughout her life (cf. ibid., II, 909; V, 246).

With regard to the preaching of that time which often focused on
"saving one's soul" in individual terms, Veronica shows a strong "sense
of solidarity", a sense of communion with all her brothers and sisters
on their way towards Heaven and she lives, prays and suffers for all.
The penultimate, earthly things, although appreciated in the Franciscan
sense as gifts of the Creator, were always relative, altogether
subordinate to "God's taste" and under the sign of radical poverty.

In the communio sanctorum, she explains the gift of herself to the
Church, as the relationship between the pilgrim Church and the heavenly
Church. "All the Saints", she wrote, "are up there thanks to the merit
and the Passion of Jesus; but they cooperated with all that the Lord
did, so that their life was totally ordered ... regulated by these same
works (his)" (ibid., III, 203).

We find many biblical citations in Veronica's writings, at times
indirectly, but always precise. She shows familiarity with the Sacred
Text, by which her spiritual experience was nourished. Furthermore, it
should be pointed out that the intense moments of Veronica's mystical
experience are never separate from the salvific events celebrated in
the Liturgy, where the proclamation of the Word of God and listening to
it has a special place. Hence Sacred Scripture illumines, purifies and
confirms Veronica's experience, rendering it ecclesial. On the other
hand, however, her experience itself, anchored in Sacred Scripture with
uncommon intensity, guides one to a more profound and "spiritual"
reading of the text itself, to enter into its hidden depths. Not only
does she express herself with the words of Sacred Scripture but she
also really lives by them, they take on life in her.

For example, our Saint often quotes the words of the Apostle Paul: "If
God is for us, who is against us?" (Rom 8:31; cf. Diary, I, 714; II
116.1021; III, 48).

The assimilation of this Pauline text, her great trust and profound
joy, becomes a fait accompli within her. "My soul", she wrote, "was
bound to the divine will and I was truly established and fixed for ever
in the will of God. It seemed to me that I should never again have to
be separated from this will of God and I came to myself with these
precise words: nothing will be able to separate me from the will of
God, neither anxieties, nor sorrows nor toil nor contempt nor
temptation nor creatures nor demons nor darkness, not even death
itself, because, in life and in death, I want all, and in all things,
the will of God" (Diary, IV, 272). Thus we have the certainty that
death is not the last word, we are fixed in God's will, hence, truly,
in eternal life.

In particular, Veronica proved a courageous witness of the beauty and
power of Divine Love which attracted her, pervaded her and inflamed
her. Crucified Love was impressed within her flesh as it was in that of
Saint Francis of Assisi, with Jesus' stigmata. "`My Bride', the
Crucified Christ whispers to me, `the penance you do for those who
suffer my disgrace is dear to me'.... Then detaching one of his arms
from the Cross he made a sign to me to draw near to his side... and I
found myself in the arms of the Crucified One. What I felt at that
point I cannot describe: I should have liked to remain for ever in his
most holy side" (ibid., I, 37). This is also an image of her spiritual
journey, of her interior life: to be in the embrace of the Crucified
One and thus to remain in Christ's love for others.

Veronica also experienced a relationship of profound intimacy with the
Virgin Mary, attested by the words she heard Our Lady say one day,
which she reports in her Diary: "I made you rest on my breast, you were
united with my soul, and from it you were taken as in flight to God"
(IV, 901).

Saint Veronica Giuliani invites us to develop, in our Christian life,
our union with the Lord in living for others, abandoning ourselves to
his will with complete and total trust, and the union with the Church,
the Bride of Christ.

She invites us to participate in the suffering love of Jesus Crucified
for the salvation of all sinners; she invites us to fix our gaze on
Heaven, the destination of our earthly journey, where we shall live
together with so many brothers and sisters the joy of full communion
with God; she invites us to nourish ourselves daily with the Word of
God, to warm our hearts and give our life direction. The Saint's last
words can be considered the synthesis of her passionate mystical
experience: "I have found Love, Love has let himself be seen!". Thank
you.

