____________________

[8]Address to the Religious Teachers Filippini by Pope John Paul II, 29
January 2001

[9]Pope Saint John Paul II

1. Dear Daughters of Saint Lucy Filippini!

I am pleased to receive you and I extend a cordial welcome to each
of you. I thank you for this visit, which you wanted on the occasion of
your Ordinary General Chapter to renew the expression of your complete
fidelity to Peter's Successor.

You have been working for years in various countries of the world and
you lovingly put yourselves at the service of the Gospel, concerned for
the needs of children, the poor and the suffering and seeking to draw
inspiration for your educational ministry from Jesus the Teacher, in a
style of discipleship based on spousal love. Continue on this path and
help to spread the Gospel of love in the new fields of apostolate that
the Lord entrusts to you. The experience, developed by your institute
over long years of service to Christ and the Church, represents a good
starting-point at the beginning of the new millennium for an even more
fruitful season of consecrated and apostolic life.

2. Your General Chapter is taking place right at the end of the Great
Jubilee of the Year 2000. It deals with a theme that is of great
interest to you: "The Constitutions, Lamp for My Feet, Light for My
Journey" (Ps 118). This choice of topic is meant to emphasize the need
for a fresh look at the Rule, since the Rule and Constitutions provide
a map for the whole journey of discipleship, in accordance with a
specific charism confirmed by the Church (cf. Vita consecrata, n. 37).

The Chapter's fundamental objective, therefore, is to offer members a
more conscious interiorization of the Constitutions, in order to live
an authentic community spirituality which can be a prophetic witness to
the values of the kingdom. As a secularized mentality becomes more
widespread, the faithful observance of the Rule for you, dear sisters,
will effectively help to strengthen you in striving for the Absolute by
not conforming to the spirit of this world, but by growing each day in
your conformity to Christ.

The Chapter assembly offers you the opportunity to return, with
humility and courage, to the origins of your institute, drawing from
them more intense energy to meet the challenges that now present
themselves to your apostolic initiative. It is by looking at the
remarkable experience of Cardinal Marcantonio Barbarigo and the young
Lucy Filippini that you will be able to achieve the desired renewal of
your structures and methods, while firmly maintaining the reference to
the Rule and the Constitutions, which provide a map for the whole
journey of Christian discipleship, in accordance with your specific
educational, pedagogical and charitable charism. Through a greater
fidelity to him, the cornerstone, who "is the same yesterday and today
and for ever" (Heb 13: 8), the Holy Spirit's gift to your founders can
continue to inspire your daily experience.

3. How could we fail to recall on this occasion the time when, towards
the end of the 1600s, Cardinal Marcantonio Barbarigo, assisted by the
young Lucy Filippini, began an extensive work of human and spiritual
support for the young, dedicating themselves also to the improvement of
women's status and the moral and cultural reform of the clergy and
people? It was precisely to this end that around 1692 the "Schools of
Christian Doctrine" for girls were established with a view to the
renewal of the family and society. Thus a capable and stable corps of
teachers was created, which was able to carry out, with fidelity and
creativity, the educational project that Barbarigo and the young Lucy
Filippini had conceived.

Your General Chapter, which is taking place at the dawn of the third
millennium, is like a short break for considering the journey made up
to now and for evaluating the more promising than ever start of a new
season of ecclesial service in Italy, Europe and the mission
territories where you work. The Church, dear sisters, expects much from
you: from your example and from your generous apostolic dedication.

You are called to exercise a special educational ministry, which is
expressed in constant signs of love, especially towards the poor, and
which, through schools, fosters not only the solid cultural growth of
your pupils, but also their conscious introduction to the perennial
truths of the Gospel.

4. So that you can fruitfully continue your apostolate, your priority
should be to cultivate a personal and community spirituality that can
harmoniously combine the safeguarding of the interior life and the
generous commitment to your multiple apostolic and charitable
initiatives.

To achieve this objective, during the work of your Chapter you have
appropriately identified formation to the consecrated life, the spirit
of prayer, fraternal communion and mission in the Church and in the
world as the privileged ways to continue to be a significant presence
in our time, following the example of your founders. Faced with rampant
religious indifferentism, you are called to carry out your specific
mission particularly in schools, while bearing in mind the difficulties
connected with the various cultural and local contexts. Be courageous
and enthusiastic, without letting yourselves be influenced by the many
kinds of obstacles you may encounter.

Rekindle the burning sentiment of Paul, who exclaimed: "Woe to me if I
do not preach the Gospel!" (1 Cor 9: 16). Learn from your founders to
place your apostolate under the protection of Mary the Mother of God,
whom the Church venerates "with filial affection and devotion as a most
beloved mother" (Lumen gentium, n. 53). I am certain that in this way
you will stir in the souls of numerous young people a desire to meet
Christ and to serve him with an "undivided heart" in their weak and
defenceless brethren.

With these sentiments, I gladly impart to you, dear sisters, a special
Blessing, which I cordially extend to everyone, especially young
people, to whom the apostolic task of your religious family commits
you.

