____________________

[9]Pope Francis - Address to religious leaders, 20 March 2013

[10]Pope Francis First of all, heartfelt thanks for what my Brother
Andrew told us. Thank you so much! Thank you so much!

It is a source of particular joy to meet you today, delegates of the
Orthodox Churches, the Oriental Orthodox Churches and Ecclesial
Communities of the West. Thank you for wanting to take part in the
celebration that marked the beginning of my ministry as Bishop of Rome
and Successor of Peter.

Yesterday morning, during the Mass, through you, I recognised the
communities you represent. In this manifestation of faith, I had the
feeling of taking part in an even more urgent fashion the prayer for
the unity of all believers in Christ, and together to see somehow
prefigured the full realisation of full unity which depends on God's
plan and on our own loyal collaboration.

I begin my Apostolic Ministry in this year during which my venerable
Predecessor, Benedict XVI, with true inspiration, proclaimed the Year
of Faith for the Catholic Church. With this initiative, that I wish to
continue and which I hope will be an inspiration for every one's
journey of faith, he wished to mark the 50th anniversary of the Second
Vatican Council, thus proposing a sort of pilgrimage towards what for
every Christian represents the essential: the personal and transforming
relationship with Jesus Christ, Son of God, who died and rose for our
salvation. This effort to proclaim this eternal treasure of faith to
the people of our time, lies at the heart of the Council's message.

Together with you I cannot forget how much the council has meaning for
the ecumenical journey. I like to remember the words that Blessed John
XXIII, of whom we will soon mark 50 years since his death, when he gave
his memorable inauguration speech: "The Catholic Church therefore
considers it her duty to work actively so that there may be fulfilled
the great mystery of that unity, which Christ Jesus invoked with
fervent prayer from His heavenly Father on the eve of His sacrifice.
She rejoices in peace, knowing well that she is intimately associated
with that prayer".

Yes, dear brothers and sisters in Christ, let us all be intimately
united to our Saviour's prayer at the Last Supper, to his invocation:
ut unum sint. We call merciful Father to be able to fully live the
faith that we have received as a gift on the day of our Baptism, and to
be able to it free, joyful and courageous testimony. The more we are
faithful to his will, in thoughts, in words and in deeds, the more we
will truly and substantially walk towards unity.

For my part, I wish to assure, in the wake of my predecessors, the firm
wish to continue on the path of ecumenical dialogue, and I thank you,
the Pontifical Council for the Promotion of Christian Unity, for the
help it continues to offer in my name, for this noble cause. I ask you,
dear brothers and sisters, to bring my cordial greetings to the
Churches and Christian communities who are represented here. And I ask
you for a special prayer for me so that I can be a pastor according to
the heart of Christ.

And now I turn to you, distinguished representatives of the Jewish
people, to whom we are bound by a very special spiritual bond, from the
moment that, as the Second Vatican Council said, "thus the Church of
Christ acknowledges that according to God's saving design, the
beginnings of her faith and her election are found already among the
Patriarchs, Moses and the prophets".(Decree Nostra Aetate, 4). I thank
you for your presence and trust that with the help of the Almighty, we
can continue that fruitful fraternal dialogue that the Council wished
for. And that it is actually achieved, bringing many fruits, especially
during the last decades.

I greet and thank cordially all of you, dear friends belonging to other
religious traditions; firstly the Muslims, who worship the one living
and merciful God, and call upon Him in prayer. I really appreciate your
presence, and in it I see a tangible sign of the wish to grow in
recipricol trust and in cooperation for the common good of humanity.

The Catholic Church is aware of the importance of the promotion of
friendship and respect between men and women of different religious
traditions - this I wish to repeat this: the promotion of friendship
and respect between men and women of different religious traditions -
this is attested evident also in the valuable work undertaken by the
Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue. The Church is equally
aware of the responsibility that each of us bring towards our world,
and to the whole of creation, that we must love and protect. And we can
do a lot for the good of the less fortunate, for those who are weak and
suffering, to promote justice, to promote reconciliation, to build
peace. But above all, we must keep alive in our world the thirst for
the absolute, and must not allow the vision of the human person with a
single dimension to prevail, according to which man is reduced to what
he produces and to what he consumes: this is one most dangerous threats
of our times.

We know how much violence has been provoked in recent history by the
attempt to eliminate God and the divine from the horizon of humanity,
and we feel the need to witness in our societies the original openness
to transcendence that is inherent in the human heart. In this we feel
the closeness also of those men and women who, while not belonging to
any religious tradition, feel, however the need to search for the
truth, the goodness and the beauty of God, and who are our precious
allies in efforts to defend the dignity of man, in the building of a
peaceful coexistence between peoples and in the careful protection of
creation.

Dear friends, thank you for your presence. To all, I offer my cordial
and fraternal greetings.

