____________________

[9]Pope Francis - Address to diplomats, 22 March 2013

1. Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,

Heartfelt thanks to your Dean, Ambassador Jean-Claude Michel, for the
kind words that he has addressed to me in the name of everyone present.
It gives me joy to welcome you for this exchange of greetings: a simple
yet deeply felt ceremony, that somehow seeks to express the Pope's
embrace of the world. Through you, indeed, I encounter your peoples,
and thus in a sense I can reach out to every one of your fellow
citizens, with their joys, their troubles, their expectations, their
desires.

Your presence here in such numbers is a sign that the relations between
your countries and the Holy See are fruitful, that they are truly a
source of benefit to mankind. That, indeed, is what matters to the Holy
See: the good of every person upon this earth! And it is with this
understanding that the Bishop of Rome embarks upon his ministry, in the
knowledge that he can count on the friendship and affection of the
countries you represent, and in the certainty that you share this
objective. At the same time, I hope that it will also be an opportunity
to begin a journey with those few countries that do not yet have
diplomatic relations with the Holy See, some of which were present at
the Mass for the beginning of my ministry, or sent messages as a sign
of their closeness - for which I am truly grateful.

As you know, there are various reasons why I chose the name of Francis
of Assisi, a familiar figure far beyond the borders of Italy and
Europe, even among those who do not profess the Catholic faith. One of
the first reasons was Francis' love for the poor. How many poor people
there still are in the world! And what great suffering they have to
endure! After the example of Francis of Assisi, the Church in every
corner of the globe has always tried to care for and look after those
who suffer from want, and I think that in many of your countries you
can attest to the generous activity of Christians who dedicate
themselves to helping the sick, orphans, the homeless and all the
marginalised, thus striving to make society more humane and more just.

But there is another form of poverty! It is the spiritual poverty of
our time, which afflicts the so-called richer countries particularly
seriously. It is what my much-loved predecessor, Benedict XVI, called
the "tyranny of relativism", which makes everyone his own criterion and
endangers the coexistence of peoples. And that brings me to a second
reason for my name. Francis of Assisi tells us we should work to build
peace. But there is no true peace without truth! There cannot be true
peace if everyone is his own criterion, if everyone can always claim
exclusively his own rights, without at the same time caring for the
good of others, of everyone, on the basis of the nature that unites
every human being on this earth.

One of the titles of the Bishop of Rome is Pontiff, that is, a builder
of bridges with God and between people. My wish is that the dialogue
between us should help to build bridges connecting all people, in such
a way that everyone can see in the other not an enemy, not a rival, but
a brother or sister to be welcomed and embraced! My own origins impel
me to work for the building of bridges. As you know, my family is of
Italian origin; and so this dialogue between places and cultures a
great distance apart matters greatly to me, this dialogue between one
end of the world and the other, which today are growing ever closer,
more interdependent, more in need of opportunities to meet and to
create real spaces of authentic fraternity.

In this work, the role of religion is fundamental. It is not possible
to build bridges between people while forgetting God. But the converse
is also true: it is not possible to establish true links with God,
while ignoring other people. Hence it is important to intensify
dialogue among the various religions, and I am thinking particularly of
dialogue with Islam. At the Mass marking the beginning of my ministry,
I greatly appreciated the presence of so many civil and religious
leaders from the Islamic world. And it is also important to intensify
outreach to non-believers, so that the differences which divide and
hurt us may never prevail, but rather the desire to build true links of
friendship between all peoples, despite their diversity.

Fighting poverty, both material and spiritual, building peace and
constructing bridges: these, as it were, are the reference points for a
journey that I want to invite each of the countries here represented to
take up. But it is a difficult journey, if we do not learn to grow in
love for this world of ours. Here too, it helps me to think of the name
of Francis, who teaches us profound respect for the whole of creation
and the protection of our environment, which all too often, instead of
using for the good, we exploit greedily, to one another's detriment.

Dear ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for all the
work that you do, alongside the Secretariat of State, to build peace
and construct bridges of friendship and fraternity. Through you, I
would like to renew to your Governments my thanks for their
participation in the celebrations on the occasion of my election, and
my heartfelt desire for a fruitful common endeavour. May Almighty God
pour out his gifts on each one of you, on your families and on the
peoples that you represent. Thank you!

