____________________

[8]Marriage-Family-Children, by Pope Paul VI, 12 February 1966

[9]official portrait of Pope Paul VI 1. It is a pleasure to greet this
XIII National Congress of the Italian Feminine Center, and We gladly
bestow Our praise and Our encouragement on all the wonderful people who
are taking part in it. From the very beginning We have known the
purpose, the activities and the merits of this federation. Its noble
and sincere Christian inspiration, together with the broad and loyal
openness of its member organizations, has won the well-deserved
confidence of numerous groups of Italian women. We know the competent
and practical activity of this federation. Besides its work of charity,
it is forming women in the knowledge of and participation in public
life.

Therefore We feel obliged to express Our recognition to all those who
have supported these endeavors with their aid, their advice, their
activity, and above all their persevering and faithful dedication. And
We are especially referring here to the loyal officers. We wish once
more to express the hope that all Italian women will sincerely want to
adhere to the goals represented and promoted by the Italian Feminine
Center. It is urgent for all Italian women to assert the effectiveness
in modern life of the moral and spiritual values of Christianity and of
the civil traditions of our country. It is likewise urgent to give to
the presence of women in society an intelligent, positive and strong
meaning.

2. The esteem and the hopes that We have expressed are confirmed by the
program of your Congress. We wish it a happy success, certain as We are
that its organizers and speakers, who are so well chosen and so
competent, will give all the participants a sense of spirituality,
seriousness and practicality.

Expectations of the Council

3. With this certainty. We will not comment on your work. Instead,
fixing Our attention on one point of the program?the family? let Us
speak to you for a few moments on this subject, and let Us recall what
the Ecumenical Council has succinctly stated on this matter. An
exhaustive treatment of the subject was not possible in the Council,
especially concerning the grave and complex problem of the norms
relating to birth. It is still not possible to annul the reservation
announced in Our Address of June 1964. But until We can give more
precise teachings. We believe it is opportune for Us to say a few words
of pastoral exhortation on the matter.

Our thoughts turn now in a particular way to the Christian couples and
parents, who for the first time in the history of the Church were
admitted to an active participation in an Ecumenical Council, as
interpreters and representatives of all the married couples and parents
in the Church, and indeed of all the families in the world.

4. Your presence at the Council, Our very dear children, means that the
Church looks today in a particular way?with concern and love?at the
family and its problems. Following the example of her divine Founder,
she has always blessed the family and human love. But today more than
ever she is aware that the physical and moral life of mankind, and even
the effective spread of the kingdom of God, depend on the wholesomeness
of the family and its fullness of spiritual life.

The Church also knows the dangers, which threaten and the difficulties,
which attempt to undermine the stability of the family and its moral
health. For this reason the Fathers of the Council have given
particular attention to that chapter of the Pastoral Constitution on
the Church in the Modern World which speaks of marriage and the family
and of their problems.

5. As We were saying, the Council was not able to treat all the
problems which Christian couples and parents face and wish to hear
about. Some of these problems are so complex and delicate that they
could not be easily discussed in a large assembly. Others required and
still require deeper study. For this reason, as you know, a special
pontifical commission has been established. It has been charged with
making a thorough study of these problems in their various
aspects?scientific, historical, sociological and doctrinal. The
commission is also taking advantage of extensive consultations with
Bishops and experts. We ask you to wait for the results of these
studies and in the meantime to pray for them. The magisterium of the
Church cannot propose moral norms until it is certain of interpreting
the will of God. And to reach this certainty the Church is not
dispensed from research and from examining the many questions proposed
for her consideration from every part of the world. This is at times a
long and not an easy task,

6. Meanwhile the Council has already approved a text, which We have
promulgated in full agreement with the Council Fathers. It is the first
chapter of the second part of the Pastoral Constitution on the Church
in the Modern World, dedicated precisely to the consideration of that
great dignity which the Church attributes to marriage and to the
family. Here We would like to remind you of some fundamental principles
of the doctrine of the Church, which are able to illuminate the course
to be taken for the good of the family and of all its members. It is
like the message of the Council to the married couples and the families
of the world, and in particular to Christian couples. We entrust you
with the task of making this message known to all, and of being?through
your word and the example of your life?its first faithful interpreters.

God's Work

7. 1. Marriage and the family are not only the work of man. They are
not a human institution, produced and dominated in their intimate being
by historical and environmental conditions, and changeable as these
are. Marriage and the family come from God. They are God's work and
correspond to an essential design, which He Himself has drawn. God's
design stands above the changeable conditions of the times and remains
unchanged through all these conditions. It is God who, by means of
marriage and the family, wishes to make man a participant in His
highest prerogatives: that of His love for men and of His capacity to
create life. For this reason marriage and the family have a
transcendental relationship with God. They come from Him and they are
ordered to Him. Families are founded and live initially on earth, but
they are meant to be reunited in heaven.

8. Any conception or doctrine whatsoever, which does not take into
sufficient consideration this essential relation of marriage and the
family to its divine origin and to a destiny which transcends human
experience, will not understand the deepest reality of marriage and
will be unable to find the correct way to solve its problems.

9. II. Through marriage and the family God has wisely united two of the
greatest human realities: the mission of transmitting life, and the
mutual and legitimate love between man and woman, by which they are
called to complement each other in a reciprocal giving of themselves
which is not only physical but above all spiritual. Or, even better,
God has wished to make the spouses partakers of His love, of the
personal love which He has for each one of them and by which He calls
them to help each other and give themselves to each other in order to
attain the fullness of their personal lives. He makes them partakers of
the love, which He has for mankind and for all His children, and by
which He wants to multiply the children of men in order to make them
participate in His life and in His eternal happiness.

10. Born from God's creative and fatherly love, marriage finds the
fundamental law of its moral value in the human love which corresponds
to the design and the wishes of God; in the mutual love of the
partners, by which each one pledges himself or herself entirely to help
the other be what God wishes that partner to be; in the common desire
of faithfully interpreting the love of God) creator and father, by
generating new life.

11. "Married couples should regard as their proper mission the task of
transmitting human life and educating those to whom it has been
transmitted. Let them realize that they are thereby cooperators in the
love of God the Creator and are, so to speak, interpreters of that
love" (Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World, n. 50).

12. In this light, the couples find the laws of unity, indissolubility
and mutual fidelity normal and necessary. Where love is lacking they
could seem to be only a burden. And in this light they will find
unsuspected sources of generosity, wisdom and strength to give life to
others.

Consciousness of Their Responsibility

13. III. The mission received from God of interpreting His creative and
fatherly love demands of married couples today a greater consciousness
of their human and Christian responsibility in the transmission of
life.

14. The conditions of present-day life, different in many respects from
those in the past and differing from one country to another, certainly
do not justify egoism or fear?devoid of trust in God?in the fulfillment
of this primary mission of the spouses. But these conditions require a
mature decision, which takes into account all the aspects for seeking
the greater good, and particularly their responsibility in regards to
education.

15. God, the author of marriage and the family, has indeed willed that
this question be regulated by laws made by Him and written in nature
itself and in the manifold purposes of this divine institution.
Christian couples will find in the duty of charity the light to solve
their personal problems. In the observance of the divine law, God has
in fact made the task and the joy of transmitting life their
responsible decision, and no one can substitute them nor constrain
their will. But the spouses should aim at a charity that is truly
complete and universal. In the first place, they should aim at charity
towards God, whose glory and the extension of whose kingdom they should
desire. In the second place, they should aim at charity towards the
children, putting into practice the principle that "Charity is not
self-seeking" (I Cor. 13: 5). Then, to mutual charity, by which each
one seeks the good of the other and anticipates his or her good
desires, rather than imposing one's own will. Illuminated by the law of
God, this attitude of charity will facilitate the way to the truth,
namely to the correct solution of their problems: that which
corresponds to the will of God concerning them, that about which they
will have no remorse at the end of their lives, that whose fruits they
will enjoy for all eternity.

16. Let the Second Vatican Council, which just closed inspire in
Christian couples this spirit of generosity to increase the new people
of God. Let it also arouse in them the desire of having children to
offer to God in the priestly and religious life, for the salvation and
service of their brothers and for their greater glory. May they always
keep this in mind: the growth of the kingdom of God and the possibility
for the Church to permeate mankind for its eternal and temporal
salvation is also entrusted to their generosity.

Way to Sanctification

17. IV. The law of charity towards God, towards the partner and towards
the children?with its consequent responsibilities?clearly indicates
that Christian marriage and the Christian family demand a moral
commitment. They are not an easy way of Christian life, even though the
most common, the one which the majority of the children of God are
called to travel. Rather, it is a long path toward sanctification
which?when it is guided by the law of God and pervaded by love?is
sustained by the daily joys and sacrifices, by the life that is
outwardly most ordinary.

18. Christian couples know that they are never alone. The Council
reminds them that, "The Saviour of men and the Spouse of the Church
comes into the lives of married Christians through the sacrament of
matrimony. He remains with them so that, just as He has loved the
Church and has given Himself for Her, the spouses may love each other
with a perpetual fidelity. Legitimate married love is caught up into
divine love. It is governed and enriched by Christ's redeeming power
and by the saving activity of the Church, so that the spouses may be
effectively drawn to God and be helped and strengthened in their
sublime mission of being a father or a mother" (Pastoral Constitution
on the Church in the Modern World, n. 48).

19. We entrust to you, Christian couples and parents, and to the many
initiatives which today promote the spirituality of married life in the
Church, the task of studying in an ever deeper way the richness of the
sacrament of matrimony, its effects on the life of the spouses, the
family and society. We entrust to you the task of helping all Christian
couples to understand the gift they have received.

Parents and Children

20. V. In the framework of this dutiful moral commitment and of the
greatness of the sacramental gift of matrimony, the Council reminds
married Christians of another virtue, which they should cultivate. It
is the virtue of conjugal chastity, strongly described by His Holiness
Pius XI and again called to mind by Pius XII.

21. This law is neither new nor inhuman. It is a doctrine of honesty
and wisdom, which the Church, enlightened by God, has always taught.
With indissoluble ties it binds the legitimate expressions of married
love to the service of God in the mission?which comes from Him?of
transmitting life. It is a doctrine, which has ennobled and sanctified
Christian married love. It has purified it from the selfishness of the
flesh and from the selfishness of the spirit. It has purified it from
the superficial search for the ephemeral reality of this world?a
search, which prevents the giving of oneself to what is eternal. It is
the doctrine and the virtue, which, throughout the centuries, has
redeemed woman from the slavery of a duty endured by force and with
humiliation. It has refined the sense of mutual respect and esteem
among spouses. Let spouses understand that the virtue of purity in
married life faithfully observed according to the law of God stimulates
moral strength and brings spiritual riches: serenity, peace, greatness
of soul, freshness of spirit. May they understand in a particular way
the inestimable value, which this virtue possesses to prepare them for
their task as educators. The following is true today as yesterday and
always. In the life of their parents, children find the deepest
formation for learning fidelity to God. In their obedience to God,
parents find the assurance of the grace they need for their task as
Christian educators?a difficult task today.

Sustained by Grace

22. Let them not become discouraged by the difficulties they find. Let
them not abandon their fidelity to the Church. Instead, let them
confidently trust in the power of divine grace, which they should
insistently ask for in prayer. Rather than reducing the divine law to
the standards of their own will, let them rise to the heights of the
divine ideal. And through the daily renewal of their good will, let
them start again on that way whose end is an eternity of life with God
and whose reward on earth is a love which is deeper and which is a
pledge of greater blessings. "Blessed are the clean of heart for they
shall see God" (Matt. 5:8).

23. During these last years the whole People of God have insistently
asked in prayer for a new Pentecost of the Church. We hope that God's
mercy will grant His Church this request. This Pentecost cannot be a
time of moral smugness. It has to be, instead, a time for greater
commitment for all, including Christian couples. "Enter by the narrow
gate ? narrow is the gate and close the way that leads to life" (Matt.
7:13-14).

24. VI. These words of Ours are directed in the first place to
Christian couples. But We want to extend them to all couples. And We
hope that all the children of the Church will listen to the voice of
their mother. We hope that with their generosity they will merit for
all the people of God, for all men, the light necessary to fully
understand the laws of God in regard to marriage. Then they will also
obtain for the Church the light necessary to solve in accord with God's
will the difficulties and the problems which are still under study.

25. Therefore, We ask Christian couples for a spirit of faith, for
trust in God, for true charity towards God, towards one another and
towards their children. Then, they will become for the world a "sign"
of the sanctity of the Church, the faithful and glorious Spouse of
Christ the Lord? a Spouse "not having spot or wrinkle . . . but holy
and without blemish" (Eph. 5:27).

26. We say these things before this wonderful assembly of the Italian
Feminine Center, one of whose activities, one of whose merits, is that
of honoring, assisting, instructing and defending the family and
especially the woman of the family. For in the family, together with
new cares and concerns, she finds her most natural and loving mission,
her most recognized dignity, her surest guarantee of salvation and of
reward. As Saint Paul says: "Yet women will be saved by child-bearing,
if they continue in faith and love and holiness with modesty" (I
Timothy 2:15).

27. It is for you, then, Our dear daughters of the Italian Feminine
Center, and for your assistants and teachers, to ponder these things
and to spread them, with Our Apostolic Blessing.

    address to the members of the XIII National Congress of the Italian
                                                        Feminine Center

