____________________

[8]Pope John Paul II - Homily at the Canonization of Saint Pio of
Pietrelcina, 16 June 2002

[9]Pope Saint John Paul II

1. "For my yoke is easy and my burden light"
(Mt 11,30).

Jesus' words to his disciples, which we just heard, help us to
understand the most important message of this solemn celebration.
Indeed, in a certain sense, we can consider them as a magnificent
summary of the whole life of Padre Pio of Pietrelcina, today proclaimed
a saint.

The evangelical image of the "yoke" recalls the many trials that the
humble Capuchin of San Giovanni Rotondo had to face. Today we
contemplate in him how gentle the "yoke" of Christ is, and how truly
light is his burden when it is borne with faithful love. The life and
mission of Padre Pio prove that difficulties and sorrows, if accepted
out of love, are transformed into a privileged way of holiness, which
opens onto the horizons of a greater good, known only to the Lord.

2. "But may I never boast except in the cross of Our Lord Jesus Christ"
(Gal 6,14).

Is it not, precisely, the "glory of the Cross" that shines above all in
Padre Pio? How timely is the spirituality of the Cross lived by the
humble Capuchin of Pietrelcina. Our time needs to rediscover the value
of the Cross in order to open the heart to hope.

Throughout his life, he always sought greater conformity with the
Crucified, since he was very conscious of having been called to
collaborate in a special way in the work of redemption. His holiness
cannot be understood without this constant reference to the Cross.

In God's plan, the Cross constitutes the true instrument of salvation
for the whole of humanity and the way clearly offered by the Lord to
those who wish to follow him (cf. Mk 16,24). The Holy Franciscan of the
Gargano understood this well, when on the Feast of the Assumption in
1914, he wrote: "In order to succeed in reaching our ultimate end we
must follow the divine Head, who does not wish to lead the chosen soul
on any way other than the one he followed; by that, I say, of
abnegation and the Cross" (Epistolario II, p. 155).

3. "I am the Lord who acts with mercy" (Jer 9,23).

Padre Pio was a generous dispenser of divine mercy, making himself
available to all by welcoming them, by spiritual direction and,
especially, by the administration of the sacrament of Penance. I also
had the privilege, during my young years, of benefitting from his
availability for penitents. The ministry of the confessional, which is
one of the distinctive traits of his apostolate, attracted great crowds
of the faithful to the monastery of San Giovanni Rotondo. Even when
that unusual confessor treated pilgrims with apparent severity, the
latter, becoming conscious of the gravity of sins and sincerely
repentant, almost always came back for the peaceful embrace of
sacramental forgiveness. May his example encourage priests to carry out
with joy and zeal this ministry which is so important today, as I
wished to confirm this year in the Letter to Priests on the occasion of
Holy Thursday.

4. "You, Lord, are my only good".

This is what we sang in the responsorial psalm. Through these words,
the new Saint invites us to place God above everything, to consider him
our sole and highest good.

In fact, the ultimate reason for the apostolic effectiveness of Padre
Pio, the profound root of so much spiritual fruitfulness can be found
in that intimate and constant union with God, attested to by his long
hours spent in prayer and in the confessional. He loved to repeat, "I
am a poor Franciscan who prays" convinced that "prayer is the best
weapon we have, a key that opens the heart of God".

This fundamental characteristic of his spirituality continues in the
"Prayer Groups" that he founded, which offer to the Church and to
society the wonderful contribution of incessant and confident prayer.
To prayer, Padre Pio joined an intense charitable activity, of which
the "Home for the Relief of Suffering" is an extraordinary expression.
Prayer and charity, this is the most concrete synthesis of Padre Pio's
teaching, which today is offered to everyone.

5. "I bless you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because ... these
things ... you have revealed to little ones" (Matthew 11:25).

How appropriate are these words of Jesus, when we think of them as
applied to you, humble and beloved Padre Pio.

Teach us, we ask you, humility of heart so we may be counted among the
little ones of the Gospel, to whom the Father promised to reveal the
mysteries of his Kingdom.

Help us to pray without ceasing, certain that God knows what we need
even before we ask him. Obtain for us the eyes of faith that will be
able to recognize right away in the poor and suffering the face of
Jesus.

Sustain us in the hour of the combat and of the trial and, if we fall,
make us experience the joy of the sacrament of forgiveness.

Grant us your tender devotion to Mary, the Mother of Jesus and our
Mother.

Accompany us on our earthly pilgrimage toward the blessed homeland,
where we hope to arrive in order to contemplate forever the glory of
the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.

Amen.

