____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 12 August 2009 - Connection between
the Blessed Virgin Mary and the priesthood

[10]detail of a stained glass rose window of Our Lady of the Immaculate
Conception; date unknown, artist unknown; Saint Nicholas Catholic
Church, Zanesville, Ohio; photographed on 31 December 2014 by Nheyob;
swiped from Wikimedia Commons The celebration of the Solemnity of the
Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, next Saturday, is at hand and we
are in the context of the Year for Priest. I therefore wish to speak of
the link between Our Lady and the priesthood. This connection is deeply
rooted in the Mystery of the Incarnation. When God decided to become
man in his Son, he needed the freely-spoken "yes" of one of his
creatures. God does not act against our freedom. And something truly
extraordinary happens: God makes himself dependent on the free
decision, the "yes" of one of his creatures; he waits for this "yes".
Saint Bernard of Clairvaux explained dramatically in one of his
homilies this crucial moment in universal history when Heaven, earth
and God himself wait for what this creature will say.

Mary's "yes" is therefore the door through which God was able to enter
the world, to become man. So it is that Mary is truly and profoundly
involved in the Mystery of the Incarnation, of our salvation. And the
Incarnation, the Son's becoming man, was the beginning that prepared
the ground for the gift of himself; for giving himself with great love
on the Cross to become Bread for the life of the world. Hence
sacrifice, priesthood and Incarnation go together and Mary is at the
heart of this mystery.

Let us now go to the Cross. Before dying, Jesus sees his Mother beneath
the Cross and he sees the beloved son. This beloved son is certainly a
person, a very important individual, but he is more; he is an example,
a prefiguration of all beloved disciples, of all the people called by
the Lord to be the "beloved disciple" and thus also particularly of
priests. Jesus says to Mary: "Woman, behold, your son!" (Jn 19: 26). It
is a sort of testament: he entrusts his Mother to the care of the son,
of the disciple. But he also says to the disciple: "Behold, your
mother!" (Jn 19: 27). The Gospel tells us that from that hour Saint
John, the beloved son, took his mother Mary "to his own home". This is
what it says in the [English] translation; but the Greek text is far
deeper, far richer. We could translate it: he took Mary into his inner
life, his inner being, "eis tà ìdia", into the depths of his being. To
take Mary with one means to introduce her into the dynamism of one's
own entire existence it is not something external and into all that
constitutes the horizon of one's own apostolate. It seems to me that
one can, therefore, understand how the special relationship of
motherhood that exists between Mary and priests may constitute the
primary source, the fundamental reason for her special love for each
one of them. In fact, Mary loves them with predilection for two
reasons: because they are more like Jesus, the supreme love of her
heart, and because, like her, they are committed to the mission of
proclaiming, bearing witness to and giving Christ to the world. Because
of his identification with and sacramental conformation to Jesus, Son
of God and Son of Mary, every priest can and must feel that he really
is a specially beloved son of this loftiest and humblest of Mothers.

The Second Vatican Council invites priests to look to Mary as to the
perfect model for their existence, invoking her as "Mother of the
supreme and eternal Priest, as Queen of Apostles, and as Protectress of
their ministry". The Council continues, "priests should always venerate
and love her, with a filial devotion and worship" (cf. Presbyterorum
Ordinis, n. 18). The Holy Curé d'Ars, whom we are remembering in
particular in this Year, used to like to say: "Jesus Christ, after
giving us all that he could give us, wanted further to make us heirs to
his most precious possession, that is, his Holy Mother (B. Nodet, Il
pensiero e l'anima del Curato d'Ars, Turin 1967, p. 305). This applies
for every Christian, for all of us, but in a special way for priests.
Dear brothers and sisters, let us pray that Mary will make all priests,
in all the problems of today's world, conform with the image of her Son
Jesus, as stewards of the precious treasure of his love as the Good
Shepherd. Mary, Mother of priests, pray for us!

