____________________

[8]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 12 December 2007 - Saint Paulinus
of Nola

[9]detail of a stained glass window of Saint Paulinus of Nola,
cathedral of Linz, Austria; artist unknown, date unknown; photographed
by Wolfgang Sauber on 14 March 2009; swiped off Wikipedia

1. Saint Paulinus of Nola

Dear Brothers
and Sisters,

The Father of the Church to whom we turn our attention today is Saint
Paulinus of Nola. Paulinus, a contemporary of Saint Augustine to whom
he was bound by a firm friendship, exercised his ministry at Nola in
Campania, where he was a monk and later a priest and a Bishop. However,
he was originally from Aquitaine in the South of France, to be precise,
Bordeaux, where he was born into a high-ranking family. It was here,
with the poet Ausonius as his teacher, that he received a fine literary
education. He left his native region for the first time to follow his
precocious political career, which was to see him rise while still
young to the position of Governor of Campania. In this public office he
attracted admiration for his gifts of wisdom and gentleness. It was
during this period that grace caused the seed of conversion to grow in
his heart. The incentive came from the simple and intense faith with
which the people honoured the tomb of a saint, Felix the Martyr, at the
Shrine of present-day Cimitile. As the head of public government,
Paulinus took an interest in this Shrine and had a hospice for the poor
built and a road to facilitate access to it for the many pilgrims.

While he was doing his best to build the city on earth, he continued
discovering the way to the city in Heaven. The encounter with Christ
was the destination of a laborious journey, strewn with ordeals.
Difficult circumstances which resulted from his loss of favour with the
political Authorities made the transience of things tangible to him.
Once he had arrived at faith, he was to write: "The man without Christ
is dust and shadow" (Carm. X, 289). Anxious to shed light on the
meaning of life, he went to Milan to attend the school of Ambrose. He
then completed his Christian formation in his native land, where he was
baptized by Bishop Delphinus of Bordeaux. Marriage was also a landmark
on his journey of faith. Indeed, he married Therasia, a devout
noblewoman from Barcelona, with whom he had a son. He would have
continued to live as a good lay Christian had not the infant's death
after only a few days intervened to rouse him, showing him that God had
other plans for his life. Indeed, he felt called to consecrate himself
to Christ in a rigorous ascetic life.

In full agreement with his wife Therasia, he sold his possessions for
the benefit of the poor and, with her, left Aquitaine for Nola. Here,
the husband and wife settled beside the Basilica of the Patron Saint,
Felix, living henceforth in chaste brotherhood according to a form of
life which also attracted others. The community's routine was typically
monastic, but Paulinus, who had been ordained a priest in Barcelona,
took it upon himself despite his priestly status to care for pilgrims.
This won him the liking and trust of the Christian community, which
chose Paulinus, upon the death of the Bishop in about 409, as his
successor in the See of Nola. Paulinus intensified his pastoral
activity, distinguished by special attention to the poor. He has
bequeathed to us the image of an authentic Pastor of charity, as St
Gregory the Great described him in chapter III of his Dialogues, in
which he depicts Paulinus in the heroic gesture of offering himself as
a prisoner in the place of a widow's son. The historical truth of this
episode is disputed, but the figure of a Bishop with a great heart who
knew how to make himself close to his people in the sorrowful trials of
the barbarian invasions lives on.

Paulinus' conversion impressed his contemporaries. His teacher
Ausonius, a pagan poet, felt "betrayed" and addressed bitter words to
him, reproaching him on the one hand for his "contempt", considered
insane, of material goods, and on the other, for abandoning his
literary vocation. Paulinus replied that giving to the poor did not
mean contempt for earthly possessions but rather an appreciation of
them for the loftiest aim of charity. As for literary commitments, what
Paulinus had taken leave of was not his poetic talent - which he was to
continue to cultivate - but poetic forms inspired by mythology and
pagan ideals. A new aesthetic now governed his sensibility: the beauty
of God incarnate, crucified and risen, whose praises he now sang.
Actually, he had not abandoned poetry but was henceforth to find his
inspiration in the Gospel, as he says in this verse: "To my mind the
only art is the faith, and Christ is my poetry" (At nobis ars una
fides, et musica Christus: Carm., XX, 32).

Paulinus' poems are songs of faith and love in which the daily history
of small and great events is seen as a history of salvation, a history
of God with us. Many of these compositions, the so-called Carmina
natalicia, are linked to the annual feast of Felix the Martyr, whom he
had chosen as his heavenly Patron. Remembering St Felix, Paulinus
desired to glorify Christ himself, convinced as he was that the Saint's
intercession had obtained the grace of conversion for him: "In your
light, joyful, I loved Christ" (Carm. XXI, 373). He desired to express
this very concept by enlarging the Shrine with a new basilica, which he
had decorated in such a way that the paintings, described by suitable
captions, would constitute a visual catechesis for pilgrims. Thus, he
explained his project in a Poem dedicated to another great catechist,
St Nicetas of Remesiana, as he accompanied him on a visit to his
basilicas: "I now want you to contemplate the paintings that unfold in
a long series on the walls of the painted porticos.... It seemed to us
useful to portray sacred themes in painting throughout the house of
Felix, in the hope that when the peasants see the painted figure, these
images will awaken interest in their astonished minds" (Carm. XXVII,
vv. 511, 580-583). Today, it is still possible to admire the remains of
these works which rightly place the Saint of Nola among the figures
with a Christian archaeological reference.

Life in accordance with the ascetic discipline of Cimitile was spent in
poverty and prayer and was wholly immersed in lectio divina. Scripture,
read, meditated upon and assimilated, was the light in whose brightness
the Saint of Nola examined his soul as he strove for perfection. He
told those who were struck by his decision to give up material goods
that this act was very far from representing total conversion. "The
relinquishment or sale of temporal goods possessed in this world is not
the completion but only the beginning of the race in the stadium; it is
not, so to speak, the goal, but only the starting point. In fact, the
athlete does not win because he strips himself, for he undresses
precisely in order to begin the contest, whereas he only deserves to be
crowned as victorious when he has fought properly" (cf. Ep. XXIV, 7 to
Sulpicius Severus).

After the ascetic life and the Word of God came charity; the poor were
at home in the monastic community. Paulinus did not limit himself to
distributing alms to them: he welcomed them as though they were Christ
himself. He reserved a part of the monastery for them and by so doing,
it seemed to him that he was not so much giving as receiving, in the
exchange of gifts between the hospitality offered and the prayerful
gratitude of those assisted. He called the poor his "masters" (cf. Ep.
XIII, 11 to Pammachius) and, remarking that they were housed on the
lower floor, liked to say that their prayers constituted the
foundations of his house (cf. Carm. XXI, 393-394).

Saint Paulinus did not write theological treatises, but his poems and
ample correspondence are rich in a lived theology, woven from God's
Word, constantly examined as a light for life. The sense of the Church
as a mystery of unity emerges in particular from them. Paulinus lived
communion above all through a pronounced practice of spiritual
friendship. He was truly a master in this, making his life a crossroads
of elect spirits: from Martin of Tours to Jerome, from Ambrose to
Augustine, from Delphinus of Bordeaux to Nicetas of Remesiana, from
Victricius of Rouen to Rufinus of Aquileia, from Pammachius to
Sulpicius Severus and many others, more or less well known. It was in
this atmosphere that the intense pages written to Augustine came into
being. Over and above the content of the individual letters, one is
impressed by the warmth with which the Saint of Nola sings of
friendship itself as a manifestation of the one Body of Christ,
enlivened by the Holy Spirit. Here is an important passage that comes
at the beginning of the correspondence between the two friends: "It is
not surprising if, despite being far apart, we are present to each
other and, without being acquainted, know each other, because we are
members of one body, we have one head, we are steeped in one grace, we
live on one loaf, we walk on one road and we dwell in the same house"
(Ep. VI, 2). As can be seen, this is a very beautiful description of
what it means to be Christian, to be the Body of Christ, to live within
the Church's communion. The theology of our time has found the key to
approaching the mystery of the Church precisely in the concept of
communion. The witness of St Paulinus of Nola helps us to perceive the
Church, as she is presented to us by the Second Vatican Council, as a
sacrament of intimate union with God, hence, of unity among all of us
and, lastly, among the whole human race (cf. Lumen Gentium, n. 1). In
this perspective I wish you all a happy Advent Season.
- Pope Benedict XVI, 12 December 2007

