____________________

[8]Pope John Paul II - Salvifici Doloris - On the Christian Meaning of Human
Suffering, 11 February 1984

[9]Pope Saint John Paul II I. Introduction

1. Declaring the power of salvific suffering, the apostle Paul says:
"In my flesh I complete what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the
sake of his body, that is, the church" ^[10]1.

These words seem to be found at the end of the long road that winds
through the suffering which forms part of the history of man and which
is illuminated by the word of God. These words have as it were the
value of a final discovery, which is accompanied by joy. For this
reason Saint Paul writes: "Now I rejoice in my suffering for your sake"
^[11]2. The joy comes from the discovery of the meaning of suffering,
and this discovery, even if it is most personally shared in by Paul of
Tarsus who wrote these words, is at the same time valid for others. The
apostle shares his own discovery and rejoices in it because of all
those whom it can help - just as it helped him - to understand the
salvific meaning of suffering.

2. The theme of suffering - precisely under the aspect of this salvific
meaning - seems to fit profoundly into the context of the holy year of
the redemption as an extraordinary jubilee of the church. And this
circumstance too clearly favors the attention it deserves during this
period. Independently of this fact, it is a universal theme that
accompanies man at every point on earth: In a certain sense it coexists
with him in the world and thus demands to be constantly reconsidered.
Even though Paul, in the Letter to the Romans, wrote that "the whole
creation has been groaning in travail together until now" ^[12]3, even
though man knows and is close to the sufferings of the animal world,
nevertheless what we express by the word "suffering" seems to be
particularly essential to the nature of man. It is as deep as man
himself, precisely because it manifests in its own way that depth which
is proper to man and in its own way surpasses it. Suffering seems to
belong to man's transcendence: It is one of those points in which man
is in a certain sense "destined" to go beyond himself, and he is called
to this in a mysterious way.

3. The theme of suffering in a special way demands to be faced in the
context of the holy year of the redemption and this is so, in the first
place, because the redemption was accomplished through the cross of
Christ, that is, through his suffering. And at the same time, during
the holy year of the redemption we recall the truth expressed in the
encyclical Redemptor Hominis (Redeemer of Man): In Christ "every man
becomes the way for the church" ^[13]4. It can be said that man in a
special fashion becomes the way for the church when suffering enters
his life. This happens, as we know, at different moments in life, it
takes place in different ways, it assumes different dimensions;
nevertheless, in whatever form, suffering seems to be, and is, almost
inseparable from man's earthly existence.

Assuming then that throughout his earthly life man walks in one manner
or another on the long path of suffering, it is precisely on this path
that the church at all times - and perhaps especially during the holy
year of the redemption - should meet man. Born of the mystery of the
redemption in the cross of Christ, the church has to try to meet man in
a special way on the path of his suffering. In this meeting man
"becomes the way for the church," and this way is one of the most
important ones.

4. This is the origin also of the present reflection, precisely in the
year of the redemption: a meditation on suffering. Human suffering
evokes compassion; it also evokes respect and in its own way it
intimidates. For in suffering is contained the greatness of a specific
mystery. This special respect for every form of human suffering must be
set at the beginning of what will be expressed here later by the
deepest need of the heart and also by the deep imperative of faith.
About the theme of suffering these two reasons seem to draw
particularly close to each other and to become one: The need of the
heart commands us to overcome fear, and the imperative of faith -
formulated, for example in the words of Saint Paul quoted at the
beginning - provides the content, in the name of which and by virtue of
which we dare to touch what appears in every man so intangible: For
man, in his suffering, remains an intangible mystery.

II. The World of Human Suffering

5. Even though in its subjective dimension, as a personal fact
contained within man's concrete and unrepeatable interior, suffering
seems almost inexpressible and not transferable, perhaps at the same
time nothing else requires as much as does suffering, in its "objective
reality," to be dealt with, meditated upon and conceived as an explicit
problem; and that therefore basic questions be asked about it and the
answers sought. It is evident that it is not a question here merely of
giving a description of suffering. There are other criteria which go
beyond the sphere of description and which we must introduce when we
wish to penetrate the world of human suffering.

Medicine, as the science and also the art of healing, discovers in the
vast field of human sufferings the best known area, the one identified
with greater precision and relatively more counterbalanced by the
methods of "reaction" (that is, the methods of therapy). Nonetheless,
this is only one area. The field of human suffering is much wider, more
varied and multidimensional. Man suffers in different ways, ways not
always considered by medicine, not even in its most advanced
specializations. Suffering is something which is still wider than
sickness, more complex and at the same time still more deeply rooted in
humanity itself. A certain idea of this problem comes to us from the
distinction between physical suffering and moral suffering. This
distinction is based upon the double dimension of the human being and
indicates the bodily and spiritual element as the immediate or direct
subject of suffering. Insofar as the words "suffering" and "pain" can,
up to a certain degree, be used as synonyms, physical suffering is
present when "the body is hurting" in some way, whereas moral suffering
is "pain of the soul." In fact, it is a question of pain of a spiritual
nature and not only of the "psychological" dimension of pain which
accompanies both moral and physical suffering. The vastness and many
forms of moral suffering are certainly no less in number than the forms
of physical suffering. But at the same time, moral suffering seems as
it were less identified and less reachable by therapy.

6. Sacred scripture is a great book about suffering. Let us quote from
the books of the Old Testament a few examples of situations which bear
the signs of suffering and above all moral suffering: the danger of
death ^[14]5, the death of one's own children ^[15]6 and especially the
death of the firstborn and only son ^[16]7; and then too: the lack of
offspring ^[17]8, nostalgia for the homeland ^[18]9, persecution and
hostility of the environment ^[19]10, mockery and scorn of the one who
suffers ^[20]11, loneliness and abandonment ^[21]12; and again: the
remorse of conscience ^[22]13, the difficulty of understanding why the
wicked prosper and the just suffer ^[23]14, the unfaithfulness and
ingratitude of friends and neighbors ^[24]15; and finally: the
misfortunes of one's own nation ^[25]16.

In treating the human person as a psychological and physical "whole,"
the Old Testament often links "moral" sufferings with the pain of
specific parts of the body: the bones ^[26]17, kidneys ^[27]18, liver
^[28]19, viscera ^[29]20, heart ^[30]21. In fact one cannot deny that
moral sufferings have a "physical" or somatic element, and that they
are often reflected in the state of the entire organism.

7. As we see from the examples quoted, we find in sacred scripture an
extensive list of variously painful situations for man. This varied
list certainly does not exhaust all that has been said and constantly
repeated on the theme of suffering by the book of the history of man
(this is rather an "unwritten book") and even more by the book of the
history of humanity, read through the history of every human
individual.

It can be said that man suffers whenever he experiences any kind of
evil. In the vocabulary of the Old Testament, suffering and evil are
identified with each other. In fact, that vocabulary did not have a
specific word to indicate "suffering." Thus it defined as "evil"
everything that was suffering ^[31]22. Only the Greek language, and
together with it the New Testament (and the Greek translation of the
Old Testament), use the verb pascho ("I am affected by ..., I
experience a feeling, I suffer"); and thanks to this verb, suffering is
no longer directly identifiable with (objective) evil, but expresses a
situation in which man experiences evil and in doing so becomes the
subject of suffering. Suffering has indeed both a subjective and a
passive character (patior). Even when man brings suffering on himself,
when he is its cause, this suffering remains something passive in its
metaphysical essence.

This does not however mean that suffering in the psychological sense is
not marked by a specific "activity." This is in fact that multiple and
subjectively differentiated "activity" of pain, sadness,
disappointment, discouragement or even despair, according to the the
intensity of the suffering subject and his or her specific sensitivity.
In the midst of what constitutes the psychological form of suffering
there is always an experience of evil, which causes the individual to
suffer.

Thus the reality of suffering prompts the question about the essence of
evil: What is evil?

This question seems in a certain sense inseparable from the theme of
suffering. The Christian response to it is different, for example, from
the one given by certain cultural and religious traditions which hold
that existence is an evil from which one needs to be liberated.
Christianity proclaims the essential good of existence and the good of
that which exists, acknowledges the goodness of Creator and proclaims
the good of creatures. Man suffers on account of evil, which is a
certain lack, limitation or distortion of good. We could say that man
suffers because of a good in which he does not share, from which in a
certain sense he is cut off or of which he has deprived himself. He
particularly suffers when he "ought" - in the normal order of things -
to have a share in this good and does not have it.

Thus, in the Christian view, the reality of suffering is explained
through evil, which always in some way refers to a good.

8. In itself human suffering constitutes as it were a specific "world"
which exists together with man, which appears in him and passes, and
sometimes does not pass, but which consolidates itself and becomes
deeply rooted in him. This world of suffering, divided into many, very
many subjects, exists as it were "in dispersion." Every individual,
through personal suffering, constitutes not only a small part of that
"world," but at the same time that "world" is present in him as a
finite and unrepeatable entity. Parallel with this, however, is the
interhuman and social dimension. The world of suffering possesses as it
were its own solidarity. People who suffer become similar to one
another through the analogy of their situation, the trial of their
destiny or through their need for understanding and care, and perhaps
above all through the persistent question of the meaning of suffering.
Thus, although the world of suffering exists "in dispersion," at the
same time it contains within itself a singular challenge to communion
and solidarity. We shall also try to follow this appeal in the present
reflection.

Considering the world of suffering in its personal and at the same time
collective meaning, one cannot fail to notice the fact that this world,
at some periods of time and in some eras of human existence, as it were
becomes particularly concentrated. This happens for example, in cases
of natural disasters, epidemics, catastrophes, upheavals and various
social scourges: One thinks, for example, of a bad harvest and
connected with it - or with various other causes - the scourge of
famine.

One thinks, finally, of war. I speak of this in a particular way. I
speak of the last two world wars, the second of which brought with it a
much greater harvest of death and a much heavier burden with it - as
though in proportion to the mistakes and transgressions of our
contemporary civilization - such a horrible threat of nuclear war that
we cannot think of this period except in terms of an incomparable
accumulation of sufferings, even to the possible self-destruction of
humanity. In this way that the world of suffering which, in brief, has
its subject in each human being seems in our age to be transformed -
perhaps more than at any other moment - into a special "world": the
world which as never before has been transformed by progress through
man's work, and, at the same time, is as never before in danger because
of man's mistakes and offenses.

III. The Quest for an Answer to the Question of the Meaning of
Suffering

9. Within each form of suffering endured by man and at the same time at
the basis of the whole world of suffering, there inevitably arises the
question: why? It is a question about the cause, the reason and,
equally about the purpose of suffering and, in brief, a question about
its meaning. Not only does it accompany human suffering, but it seems
even to determine its human content, what makes suffering precisely
human suffering.

It is obvious that pain, especially physical pain, is widespread in the
animal world. But only the suffering human being knows that he is
suffering and wonders why; and he suffers in a humanly speaking still
deeper way if he does not find a satisfactory answer. This is a
difficult question, just as is a question closely akin to it, the
question of evil? Why does evil exist? Why is there evil in the world?
When we put the question in this way, we are always, at least to a
certain extent, asking a question about suffering too.

Both questions are difficult when an individual puts them to another
individual, when people put them to other people, as also when man puts
them to God. For man does not put this question to the world even
though it is from the world that suffering often comes to him, but he
puts it to God as the Creator and Lord of the world. And it is
well-known that concerning this question there not only arise many
frustrations and conflicts in the relations of man with God, but it
also happens that people reach the point of actually denying God. For,
whereas the existence of the world opens as it were the eyes of the
human soul to the existence of God, to his wisdom, power and greatness,
evil and suffering seem to obscure this image, sometimes in a radical
way, especially in the daily drama of so many cases of undeserved
suffering and of so many faults without proper punishment. So this
circumstance shows - perhaps more than any other - the importance of
the question of the meaning of suffering: it also shows how much care
must be taken both in dealing with the question itself and with all
possible answers to it.

10. Man can put this question to God with all the emotion of his heart
and with his mind full of dismay and anxiety; and God expects the
question and listens to it, as we see in the revelation of the Old
Testament. In the Book of Job the question has found its most vivid
expression.

The story of this just man, who without any fault of his own is tried
by innumerable sufferings, is well-known. He loses his possessions, his
sons and daughters, and finally he himself is afflicted by a grave
sickness. In this horrible situation three old acquaintances come to
his house, and each one in his own way tries to convince him that since
he has been struck down by such varied and terrible sufferings, he must
have done something seriously wrong. For suffering - they say - always
strikes a man as punishment for a crime; it is sent by the absolutely
just God and finds its reason in the order of justice. It can be said
that Job's old friends wish not only to convince him of the moral
justice of evil, but in a certain sense they attempt to justify to
themselves the moral meaning of suffering. In their eyes, suffering can
have a meaning only as a punishment for sin, therefore only on the
level of God's justice, who repays good with good and evil with evil.

The point of reference in this case is the doctrine expressed in other
Old Testament writings which show us suffering as punishment inflicted
by God for human sins. The God of revelation is the lawgiver and judge
to a degree that no temporal authority can be. For the God of
revelation is first of all the Creator, from whom comes, together with
existence, the essential good of creation. Therefore, the conscious and
free violation of this good by man is not only a transgression of the
law, but at the same time an offense against the Creator, who is the
first lawgiver. Such a transgression has the character of sin,
according to the exact meaning of this word, namely the biblical and
theological one. Corresponding to the moral evil of sin is punishment,
which guarantees the moral order in the same transcendent sense in
which this order is laid down by the will of the Creator and supreme
lawgiver. From this there also derives one of the fundamental truths of
religious faith, equally based upon revelation, namely that God is a
just judge, who rewards good and punishes evil:

"For thou art just in all that thou hast done to us, and all thy works
are true and thy ways right, and all thy judgements truth. Thou has
executed true judgements in all that thou hast brought upon us ... for
in truth and justice thou hast brought all this upon us because of our
sins" ^[32]23.

The opinion expressed by Job's friends manifests a conviction also
found in the moral conscience of humanity: The objective moral order
demands punishment for transgression, sin and crime. From this point of
view, suffering appears as a :justified evil." The conviction of those
who explain suffering as a punishment for sin finds support in the
order of justice, and this corresponds to the conviction expressed by
one of Job's friends: "As I have seen, those who plow iniquity and so
trouble reap the same" ^[33]24.

11. Job however challenges the truth of the principle that identifies
suffering with punishment for sin. And he does this on the basis of his
own opinion. For he is aware that he has not deserved such punishment,
and in fact he speaks of the good that he has done during his life. In
the end, God himself reproves Job's friends for their accusations and
recognizes that Job is not guilty. His suffering is the suffering of
someone who is innocent; it must be accepted as a mystery, which the
individual is unable to penetrate completely by his own intelligence.

The Book of Job does not violate the foundations of the transcendent
moral order, based upon justice, as they are set forth by the whole of
revelation, in both the Old and the New Covenants. At the same time,
however, this book shows with all firmness that the principles of this
order cannot be applied in an exclusive and superficial way. While it
is true that suffering has a meaning as punishment, when it is
connected with a fault, it is not true that all suffering is a
consequence of a fault and has the nature of a punishment. The figure
of the just man Job is a special proof of this in the Old Testament.
Revelation, which is the word of God himself, with complete frankness
presents the problem of the suffering of an innocent man: suffering
without guilt. Job has not been punished, there was no reason for
inflicting a punishment on him, even if he has been subjected to a
grievous trial. From the introduction of the book it is apparent that
God permitted this testing as a result of Satan's provocation. For
Satan had challenged before the Lord the righteousness of Job:

"Does Job fear God for naught? ... Thou hast blessed the work of his
hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. But put forth
thy hand now, and touch all that he has, and he will curse thee to thy
face" ^[34]25.

And if the Lord consents to test Job with suffering, he does it to
demonstrate the latter's righteousness. The suffering has the nature of
a test.

The Book of Job is not the last word on this subject in revelation. In
a certain way it is a foretelling of the passion of Christ. But already
in itself it is sufficient argument why the answer to the question
about the meaning of suffering is not to be unreservedly linked to the
moral order, based on justice alone. While such an answer has
fundamental and transcendent reason and validity, at the same time it
is seen to be not only unsatisfactory in cases similar to the suffering
of the just man Job, but it even seems to trivialize and impoverish the
concept of justice which we encounter in revelation.

12. The Book of Job poses in an extremely acute way the question of the
"why" of suffering; it also shows that suffering strikes the innocent,
but it does not yet give the solution to the problem.

Already in the Old Testament we note an orientation that begins to go
beyond the concept according to which suffering has a meaning only as a
punishment for sin, insofar as it emphasizes at the same time the
educational value of suffering as a punishment. Thus in the sufferings
inflicted by God upon the chosen people there is included an invitation
of his mercy, which corrects in order to lead to conversion: "These
punishments were designed not to destroy but to discipline our people"
^[35]26.

Thus the personal dimension of punishment is affirmed. According to
this dimension, punishment has a meaning not only because it serves to
repay the objective evil of the transgression with another evil, but
first and foremost because it creates the possibility of rebuilding
goodness in the subject who suffers.

This is an extremely important aspect of suffering. It is profoundly
rooted in the entire revelation of the Old and above all the New
Covenant. Suffering must serve for conversion, that is, for the
rebuilding of goodness in the subject, who can recognize the divine
mercy in this call to repentance. The purpose of penance is to overcome
evil, which under different forms lies dormant in man. Its purpose is
also to strengthen goodness both in man himself and in his
relationships with others and especially with God.

13. But in order to perceive the true answer to the "why" of suffering,
we must look to the revelation of divine love, the ultimate source of
the meaning of everything that exists. Love is also the richest source
of the meaning of suffering, which always remains a mystery: We are
conscious of the insufficiency and inadequacy of our explanations.
Christ causes us to enter into the mystery and to discover the "why" of
suffering, as far as we are capable of grasping the sublimity of divine
love.

In order to discover the profound meaning of suffering, following the
revealed word of God, we must open ourselves wide to the human subject
in his manifold potentiality. We must above all accept the light of
revelation not only insofar as it expresses the transcendent order of
justice, but also insofar as it illuminates this order with love, as
the definitive source of everything that exists. Love is also the
fullest source of the answer to the question of the meaning of
suffering. This answer has been given by God to man in the cross of
Jesus Christ.

IV. Jesus Christ: Suffering Conquered by Love

14. "For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that whoever
believes in him should not perish but have eternal life" ^[36]27. These
words, spoken by Christ in his conversation with Nicodemus, introduce
us into the very heart of God's salvific work. They also express the
very essence of Christian soteriology, that is, of the theology of
salvation. Salvation means liberation from evil, and for this reason it
is closely bound up with the problem of suffering. According to the
words spoken to Nicodemus, God gives his Son to "the world" to free man
from evil, which bears within itself the definitive and absolute
perspective on suffering. At the same time, the very word "gives"
("gave") indicates that this liberation must be achieved by the
only-begotten Son through his own suffering. And in this, love is
manifested, the infinite love both of that only-begotten Son and of the
Father who for this reason "gives" his son. This is the love for man,
love for the "world": It is salvific love.

We here find ourselves - and we must clearly realize this in our shared
reflection on this problem - faced with a completely new dimension of
our theme. It is a different dimension from the one which was
determined and, in a certain sense, concluded the search for the
meaning of suffering within the limits of justice. This is the
dimension of redemption, to which the Old Testament, at least in the
Vulgate text, the words of the just man Job already seem to refer: "For
I know that my redeemer lives, and at last ... I shall see God"
^[37]28. Whereas our consideration has so far concentrated primarily
and in a certain sense exclusively on suffering in its multiple
temporal dimension (as also the sufferings of the just man Job), the
words quoted above from Jesus' conversation with Nicodemus refer to
suffering in its fundamental and definitive meaning. God gives his
only-begotten Son so that man "should not perish," and the meaning of
these words " should not perish" is precisely specified by the words
that follow: "but have eternal life."

Man "perishes" when he loses "eternal life." The opposite of salvation
is not therefore only temporal suffering, any king of suffering, but
the definitive suffering: the loss of eternal life, being rejected by
God, damnation. The only-begotten Son was given to humanity primarily
to protect man against this definitive evil and against definitive
suffering. In his salvific mission the Son must therefore strike evil
right at its transcendental roots from which it develops in human
history. These transcendental roots of evil are grounded in sin and
death: for they are at the basis of the loss of eternal life. The
mission of the only-begotten Son consists in conquering sin and death.
He conquers sin by his obedience unto death, and he overcomes death by
his resurrection.

15. When one says that Christ by his mission strikes at evil at its
very roots, we have in mind not only evil and definitive eschatological
suffering (so that man "should not perish, but have eternal life"), but
also - at least indirectly - evil and suffering in sin and death. And
even if we must use great caution in judging man's suffering as a
consequence of concrete sins (this is shown precisely by the example of
the just man Job), nevertheless suffering cannot be divorced from the
sin of the beginnings, from what Saint John calls "the sin of the
world" ^[38]29, from the sinful background of the personal actions and
social processes in human history. Though it is not licit to apply here
the narrow criterion of direct dependence (as Job's three friends did),
it is equally true that one cannot reject the criterion that at the
basis of human suffering there is a complex involvement with sin.

It is the same when we deal with death. It is often awaited even as a
liberation from the suffering of this life. At the same time, it is not
possible to ignore the fact that it constitutes as it were a definitive
summing up of the destructive work both in the bodily organism and in
the psyche. But death primarily involves the dissolution of the entire
psychophysical personality of man. The soul survives and subsists
separated from the body, while the body is subjected to gradual
decomposition according to the words of the Lord God, pronounced after
the sin committed by man at the beginning of his earthly history: "You
are dust and to dust you shall return" ^[39]30. Therefore, even if
death is not a form of suffering in the temporal sense of the word,
even if in a certain way it is beyond all forms of suffering, at the
same time the evil which the human being experiences in death has a
definitive and total character. By his salvific work, the only-begotten
Son liberates man from sin and death. First of all, he blots out from
human history the dominion of sin, which took root under the influence
of the evil spirit, beginning with original sin, and then he gives man
the possibility of living in sanctifying grace. In the wake of his
victory over sin, he also takes away the dominion of death, by his
resurrection beginning the process of the future resurrection of the
body. Both are essential conditions of "eternal life," that is, of
man's definitive happiness in union with God; this means, for the
saved, that in the eschatological perspective suffering is totally
blotted out.

As a result of Christ's salvific work, man exists on earth with the
hope of eternal life and holiness. And even though the victory over sin
and death achieved by Christ in his cross and resurrection does not
abolish temporal suffering from human life nor free from suffering the
whole historical dimension of human existence, it nevertheless throws a
new light upon this dimension and upon every suffering: the light of
salvation. This is the light of the Gospel, that is, of the good news.
At the heart of this light is the truth expounded in the conversation
with Nicodemus: "For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son"
^[40]31. This truth radically changes the picture of man's history and
his earthly situation: In spite of the sin that took root in this
history both as an original inheritance and as the "sin of the world"
and as the sum of personal sins, God the Father has loved the
only-begotten Son, that is, loves him in a lasting way; and then in
time, precisely through this all-surpassing love, he "gives" this Son,
that he may strike at the very roots of human evil and thus draw close
in a salvific way to the whole world of suffering in which man shares.

16. In his messianic activity in the midst of Israel, Christ drew
increasingly closer to the world of human suffering. "He went about
doing good" ^[41]32, and his actions concerned primarily those who were
suffering and seeking help. He healed the sick, consoled the afflicted,
fed the hungry, freed people from deafness, from blindness, from
leprosy, from the devil and from various physical disabilities, three
times he restored the dead to life. He was sensitive to every human
suffering, whether of the body or of the soul. And at the same time he
taught, and at the heart of his teaching there are the eight
[42]beatitudes, which addressed to people tried by various sufferings
in their temporal life. These are "poor in spirit" and "the afflicted"
and "those who hunger and thirst for justice" and those who are
"persecuted for justice' sake," when they insult them, persecute them
and speak falsely every kind of evil against them for the sake of
Christ ... ^[43]33. Thus according to Matthew; Luke mentions explicitly
those "who hunger now" ^[44]34. At any rate, Christ drew close above
all to the world of human suffering through the fact of having taken
this suffering upon his very self. During his public activity he
experienced not only fatigue, homelessness, misunderstanding even on
the part of those closest to him, but, more than anything, he became
progressively more and more isolated and encircled by hostility and the
preparations for putting him to death. Christ is aware of this and
often speaks to his disciples of the sufferings and death that await
him:

  "Behold, we are going to Jerusalem; and the Son of Man will be
  delivered to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will
  condemn him to death and deliver him to the Gentiles; and they will
  mock him, and spit upon him, and scourge him, and kill him; and
  after three days he will rise" ^[45]35.

Christ goes toward his passion and death with full awareness of the
mission that he has to fulfill precisely in this way. Precisely by
means of this suffering he must bring it about "that man should not
perish, but have eternal life." Precisely by means of his cross he must
accomplish the work of salvation. This work, in the plan of eternal
love, has a redemptive character.

And therefore Christ severely reproves Peter when the latter wants to
make him abandon the thoughts of suffering and of death on the cross
^[46]36. And when, during his arrest in Jerusalem, the same Peter tries
to defend him with the sword, Christ says, "Put your sword back into
its place ... But who then should the scriptures be fulfilled, that it
must be so?" ^[47]37. And he also says, "Shall I not drink the cup
which the Father has given me?" ^[48]38. This response, like others
that reappear in different points of the Gospel, shows how profoundly
Christ was imbued by the thought that he had already expressed in the
conversation with Nicodemus: "For God so loved the world that he gave
his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have
eternal life" ^[49]39. Christ goes toward his own suffering, aware of
its saving power; he goes forward in obedience to the Father, but
primarily he is united to the Father in this love with which he has
loved the world and man in the world. And for this reason Saint Paul
will write of Christ: "He loved me and gave himself for me" ^[50]40.

17. The scriptures had to be fulfilled. There were many messianic texts
in the Old Testament which foreshadowed the sufferings of the future
Anointed One of God. Among all these, particularly touching is the one
which is commonly called the fourth song of the suffering servant, in
the Book of Isaiah. The prophet, who has rightly been called "the fifth
evangelist," presents in this song an image of the sufferings of the
servant with a realism as acute as if he were seeing them with his own
eyes: the eyes of the body and of the spirit. In the light of the
verses of Isaiah, the passion of Christ becomes almost more expressive
and touching than in the descriptions of the evangelists themselves.
Behold the true Man of Sorrows presents himself before us:

  "He had no form or comeliness that we should look at him, and no
  beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by
  men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief; and as one from
  whom men hide their faces he was despised, and we esteemed him not.
  Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we
  esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted.

  "But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our
  iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that made us whole, and
  with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray
  we have turned every one to his own way; and the Lord has laid on
  him the iniquity of us all" ^[51]41.

The song of the suffering servant contains a description in which it is
possible, in a certain sense, to identify the stages of Christ's
passion in their various details: the arrest, the humiliation, the
blows, the spitting, the contempt for the prisoner, the unjust
sentence, and then the scourging, the crowning with thorns and the
mocking, the carrying of the cross, the crucifixion and the agony.

Even more than this description of the passion, what strikes us in the
words of the prophet is the depth of Christ's sacrifice. Behold, he,
though innocent, takes upon himself the sufferings of all people,
because he takes upon himself the sins of all. "The Lord has laid on
him the iniquity of us all": All human sin in its breadth and depth
becomes the true cause of the Redeemer's suffering. If the suffering
"is measured" by the evil suffered, then the words of the prophet
enable us to understand the extent of this evil and suffering with
which Christ burdened himself. It can be said that this is
"substantive" suffering; but above all it is "redemptive." The man of
sorrows of that prophecy is truly the "Lamb of God who takes away the
sin of the world" ^[52]42. In his suffering, sins are canceled out
precisely because he alone as the only-begotten Son could take them
upon himself, accept them with that love for the Father which overcomes
the evil of every sin; in a certain sense he annihilates this evil in
the spiritual space of the relationship between God and humanity, and
fills this space with good.

Here we touch upon the duality of nature of a single personal subject
of redemptive suffering. He who by his passion and death on the cross
brings about the redemption is the only-begotten Son whim God "gave."
And at the same time this Son who is consubstantial with the Father
suffers as a man. His suffering has human dimensions; it also has -
unique in the history of humanity - an incomparable depth and intensity
of suffering, insofar as the man who suffers is in person the
only-begotten Son himself: "God from God." Therefore, only he - the
only-begotten Son - is capable of embracing the measure of evil
contained in the sin of man: in every sin and in "total" sin, according
to the dimensions of the historical existence of humanity on earth.

18. It can be said that the above consideration now brings us directly
to Gethsemane and Golgotha, where the song of the suffering servant
contained in the Book of Isaiah was fulfilled. But before going there,
let us read the next verses of the song, which give a prophetic
anticipation of the passion at Gethsemane and Golgotha. The suffering
servant - and this in turn is essential for an analysis of Christ's
passion - takes on himself those sufferings which were spoken of, in a
totally voluntary way:

  "He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his
  mouth; like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep
  that before its shearers is dumb, so he opened not his mouth.

  "By oppression and judgement he was taken away; and as for his
  generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of
  the living, stricken for the transgression of my people? And they
  made his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death,
  although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his
  mouth" ^[53]43.

Christ suffers voluntarily and suffers innocently. With his suffering
he accepts that question which -posed by people many times - has been
expressed in a certain sense in a radical way by the Book of Job.
Christ, however, not only carries with himself the same question (and
this in an even more radical way, for he is not only a man like Job,
but the only-begotten Son of God), but he also carries the greatest
possible answer to this question. One can say that this answer emerges
from the very matter of which the question is made up. Christ gives the
answer to the question about suffering and the meaning of suffering not
only by his teaching, that is, by the good news, but most of all by his
own suffering, which is integrated with this teaching of the good news
in an organic and indissoluble way. And this is the final, definitive
word of this teaching: "the word of the cross," as Saint Paul one day
will say ^[54]44.

This "word of the cross" completes with a definitive reality the image
of the ancient prophecy. Many episodes, many discourses, during
Christ's public teaching bear witness to the way in which from the
beginning he accepts this suffering which is the will of the Father for
the salvation of the world. However, the prayer in Gethsemane becomes a
definitive point here. The words: "My Father, if it be possible, let
this cup pass from me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt"
^[55]45, and later: "My Father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it,
thy will be done" ^[56]46, have a manifold eloquence. They prove the
truth of that love which the only-begotten Son gives to the Father in
his obedience. At the same time, they attest to the truth of his
suffering. The words of that prayer of Christ in Gethsemane prove the
truth of love through the truth of suffering. Christ's words confirm
with all simplicity this human truth of suffering to its very depths:
Suffering is the undergoing of evil before which man shudders. He says:
"Let it pass from me," just as Christ says in Gethsemane.

His words also attest to this unique and incomparable depth and
intensity of suffering which only the man who is the only-begotten Son
could experience; they attest to that depth and intensity which the
prophetic words quoted above in their own way help us to understand.
Not of course completely (for this we would have to penetrate the
divine-human mystery of the subject), but at least they help us to
understand that difference (and at the same time the similarity) which
exists between every possible form of human suffering and the suffering
of the God-man. Gethsemane is the place where precisely this suffering,
in all truth expressed by the prophet concerning the evil experienced
in it, is revealed as it were definitively before the eyes of Christ's
soul.

After the words in Gethsemane come the words uttered on Golgotha, words
which bear witness to this depth - unique in the history of the world -
of the evil of the suffering experienced. When Christ says: "My God, my
God, why have you abandoned me?" his words are not only an expression
of that abandonment which many times found expression in the Old
Testament, especially in the psalms and in particular in that Psalm 22
(21) from which come the words quoted ^[57]47. One can say that these
words on abandonment are born at the level of that inseparable union of
the Son with the Father, and are born because the Father "laid on him
the iniquity of us all" ^[58]48. They foreshadow the words of Saint
Paul: "For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin" ^[59]49.
Together with this horrible weight, encompassing the "entire" evil of
the turning away from God which is contained in sin, Christ, through
the divine depth of his filial union with the Father, perceives in a
humanly inexpressible way this suffering which is the separation, the
rejection by the Father, the estrangement from God. But precisely
through this suffering he accomplishes the redemption and can say as he
breathes his last: "It is finished" ^[60]50.

One can also say that the scripture has been fulfilled, that these
words of the song of the suffering servant have been definitively
accomplished: "It was the will of the Lord to bruise him" ^[61]51.
Human suffering has reached its culmination in the passion of Christ.
And at the same time it has entered into a completely new dimension and
a new order: It has been linked to love, to that love of which Christ
spoke to Nicodemus, to that love which creates good, drawing it out by
means of suffering, just as the supreme good of the redemption of the
world was drawn from the cross of Christ and from that cross constantly
takes its beginning. The cross of Christ has become a source from which
flow rivers of living water ^[62]52. In it we must also pose anew the
question about the meaning of suffering and read in it, to its very
depths, the answer to this question.

V. Sharers in the Sufferings of Christ

19. The same song of the suffering servant in the Book of Isaiah leads
us, through the following verses, precisely in the direction of this
question and answer:

  "When he makes himself an offering for sin, he shall see his
  offspring, he shall prolong his days; the will of the Lord shall
  prosper in his hand; he shall see the fruit of the travail of his
  soul and be satisfied; by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my
  servant, make many to be accounted righteous; and he shall bear
  their iniquities.

  "Therefore I will divide him a portion with the great, and he shall
  divide the spoil with the strong; because he poured out his soul to
  death, and was numbered with the transgressors; yet he bore the sin
  of many, and made intercession for the transgressors" ^[63]53.

One can say that with the passion of Christ all human suffering has
found itself in a new situation. And it is as though Job had foreseen
this when he said: "I know that my Redeemer lives" ^[64]54, and as
though he had directed toward it his own suffering, which without the
redemption could not have revealed to him the fullness of its meaning.
In the cross of Christ not only is the redemption accomplished through
suffering, but also human suffering itself has been redeemed. Christ -
without any fault of his own - took on himself "the total evil of sin."
The experience of this evil determined the incomparable extent of
Christ's suffering, which became the price of the redemption. The song
of the suffering servant in Isaiah speaks of this. In later times
witnesses of the New Covenant, sealed in the blood of Christ, will
speak of this. These are the words of the apostle Peter in his letter:
"You know that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from
your fathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but
with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish
or spot" ^[65]55. And the apostle Paul in the Letter to the Galatians
will say: "He gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present
evil age" ^[66]56, and in the First Letter to the Corinthians: "You
were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body" ^[67]57.

With these and similar words the witnesses of the New Covenant speak of
the greatness of the redemption accomplished through the suffering of
Christ. The Redeemer suffered in place of man and for man. Every man
has his own share in the redemption. Each one is also called to share
in that suffering through which the redemption was accomplished. He is
called to share in that suffering though which all human suffering has
also been redeemed. In bringing about the redemption through suffering,
Christ has also raised human suffering to the level of the redemption.
Thus each man in his suffering can also become a sharer in the
redemptive suffering of Christ.

20. The texts of the New Testament express this concept in many places.
In the Second Letter to the Corinthians the apostle writes: "We are
afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to
despair; persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed;
always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life we are
always being given up to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of
Jesus may be manifested in our mortal flesh ..., knowing that he who
raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus" ^[68]58.

Saint Paul speaks of various sufferings and, in particular, of those in
which the first Christians became sharers "for the sake of Christ."
These sufferings enable the recipients of that letter to share in the
work of the redemption, accomplished through the suffering and death of
the Redeemer. The eloquence of the cross and death is, however,
completed by the eloquence of the resurrection. Man finds in the
resurrection a completely new light, which helps him to go forward
through the thick darkness of humiliations, doubts, hopelessness and
persecution. Therefore the apostle will also write in the Second Letter
to the Corinthians: "For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings,
so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too" ^[69]59.
Elsewhere he addresses to his recipients words of encouragement: "May
the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness
of Christ" ^[70]60. And in the Letter to the Romans he writes: "I
appeal to you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present
your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is
your spiritual worship" ^[71]61.

The very participation in Christ's sufferings finds in these apostolic
expressions as it were a twofold dimension. If one becomes a sharer in
the sufferings of Christ, this happens because Christ has opened his
suffering to man, because he himself in his redemptive suffering has
become in a certain sense a sharer in all human sufferings. Man,
discovering through faith the redemptive suffering of Christ, also
discovers in it his own sufferings; he rediscovers them through faith,
enriched with a new content and new meaning.

This discovery caused Saint Paul to write particularly strong words in
the Letter to the Galatians: "I have been crucified with Christ; it is
no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me: and the life I now
live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me"
^[72]62. Faith enables the author of these words to know that love
which led Christ to the cross. And if he loved us in this way,
suffering and dying, then with this suffering and death of his he lives
in the one whom he loved in this way; he lives in the man: in Paul. And
living in him - to the degree that Paul, conscious of this through
faith, responds to his love with love - Christ also becomes in a
particular way united to the man, to Paul through the cross. This union
caused Paul to write in the same letter to the Galatians other words as
well, no less strong: "But far be it from me to glory except in the
cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified
to me, and I to the world ^[73]63.

21. The cross of Christ throws salvific light, in a most penetrating
way, on man's life and in particular on his suffering. For through
faith the cross reaches man together with the resurrection: The mystery
of the passion is contained in the paschal mystery. witnesses of
Christ's passion are at the same time witnesses of his resurrection.
Paul writes: "That I may know him (Christ) and the power of the
resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his
death, that if possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead"
^[74]64. Truly, the apostle first experienced the "power of the
resurrection" of Christ on the road to Damascus and only later, in this
paschal light, reached that "sharing in his sufferings" of which he
speaks, for example, in the letter to the Galatians. The path of Paul
is clearly paschal: Sharing in the cross of Christ comes about through
the experience of the Risen One, therefore through a special sharing in
the resurrection. Thus, even in the apostle's expressions on the
subject of suffering there so often appears the motif of glory, which
finds its beginning in Christ's cross.

The witnesses of the cross and resurrection were convinced that
"through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God" ^[75]65.
And Paul, writing to the Thessalonians, says this:

  "We ourselves boast of you ... for your steadfastness and faith in
  all your persecutions and in the afflictions which you are enduring.
  This is evidence of the righteous judgement of God, that you may be
  made worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are suffering"
  ^[76]66.

Thus to share in the sufferings of Christ is at the same time to suffer
for the kingdom of God. In the eyes of the just God, before his
judgement, those who share in the sufferings of Christ become worthy of
this kingdom. Through their sufferings, in a certain sense they repay
the infinite price of our redemption: At this price the kingdom of God
has been consolidated anew in human history, becoming the definitive
prospect of man's earthly existence. Christ has led us into this
kingdom through his suffering. And also through suffering those
surrounded by the mystery of Christ's redemption become mature enough
to enter this kingdom.

22. To the prospect of the kingdom of God is linked hope in that glory
which has its beginning in the cross of Christ. The resurrection
revealed this glory - eschatological glory - which in the cross of
Christ was completely obscured by the immensity of suffering. Those who
share in the sufferings of Christ are also called, through their own
sufferings, to share in glory. Paul expresses this in various places.
To the Romans he writes:

  "We are ... fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in
  order that we may also be glorified with him. I consider that the
  sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the
  glory that is to be revealed in us" ^[77]67.

In the Second Letter to the Corinthians we read: "For this slight
momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory
beyond all comparison, because we look not to the things that are seen
but to things that are unseen" ^[78]68. The apostle Peter will express
this truth in the following words of his first letter: "But rejoice
insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and
be glad when his glory is revealed" ^[79]69.

The motif of suffering and glory has a strictly evangelical
characteristic, which becomes clear by reference to the cross and the
resurrection. The resurrection became, first of all, the manifestation
of glory, which corresponds to Christ's being lifted up through the
cross. If in fact the cross was to human eyes Christ's emptying of
himself, at the same time it was in the eyes of God his being lifted
up. On the cross, Christ attained and fully accomplished his mission:
By fulfilling the will of the Father, he at the same time fully
realized himself. In weakness he manifested his power and in
humiliation he manifested all his messianic greatness. Are not all the
words he uttered during his agony on Golgotha a proof of this greatness
and especially his words concerning the perpetrators of his
crucifixion: "Father, forgive them for they know not what they do?"
^[80]70. To those who share in Christ's sufferings these words present
themselves with the power of a supreme example. Suffering is also an
invitation to manifest the moral greatness of man, his spiritual
maturity. Proof of this has been given, down through the generations,
by the martyrs and confessors of Christ, faithful to the words: "And do
not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul" ^[81]71.

Christ's resurrection has revealed "the glory of the future age" and at
the same time has confirmed "the boast of the cross": the glory that is
hidden in the suffering of Christ and which has been and is often
mirrored in human suffering, as an expression of man's spiritual
greatness. This glory must be acknowledged not only in the martyrs for
the faith, but in many others also who, at times even without belief in
Christ, suffer and give their liver for the truth and for a just cause.
In the sufferings of all of these people the great dignity of man is
strikingly confirmed.

23. Suffering, in fact, is always a trial - at times a very hard one -
to which humanity is subjected. The gospel paradox of weakness and
strength often speaks to us from the pages of the letters of St. Paul,
a paradox particularly experienced by the apostle himself and together
with him experienced by all who share Christ's will all the more gladly
boast of my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may rest upon me"
^[82]72. In the Second Letter to Timothy we read: "And therefore I
suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed"
^[83]73. And in the Letter to the Philippians he will even say: "I can
do all things in him who strengthens me" ^[84]74.

Those who share in Christ's sufferings have before their eyes the
paschal mystery of the cross and resurrection, which Christ descends,
in the first phase, to the ultimate limits of human weakness and
impotence: Indeed, he dies nailed to the cross. But if at the same time
in this weakness there is accomplished his lifting up, confirmed by the
power of the resurrection, then this means that the weaknesses of all
human sufferings are capable of being infused with the same power of
God manifested in Christ's cross. In such a concept, to suffer means to
become particularly susceptible, particularly open to the working of
the salvific powers of God offered to humanity in Christ. In him God
has confirmed his desire to act especially through suffering, which is
man's weakness and emptying of self, and he wishes to make his power
known precisely in this weakness and emptying of self. This also
explains the exhortation in the First Letter of Peter: "Yet if one
suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but under that name let
him glorify God" ^[85]75.

In the Letter to the Romans, the apostle Paul deals still more fully
with the theme of this "birth of power in weakness," this spiritual
tempering of man in the midst of trials and tribulations, which is the
particular vocation of those who share in Christ's sufferings. "More
than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering
produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character
produces hope, and hope does not disappoint us, because God's love has
been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit which has been
given to us" ^[86]76. Suffering as it were contains a special call to
the virtue which man must exercise on his own part. And this is the
virtue of perseverance in bearing whatever disturbs and causes harm. In
doing this, the individual unleashes hope, which maintains in him the
conviction that suffering will not get the better of him, that it will
not deprive him of his dignity as a human being, a dignity linked to
awareness of the meaning of life. And indeed this meaning makes itself
known together with the working of God's live, which is the supreme
gift of the Holy Spirit. The more he shares in this love, man
rediscovers himself more and more fully in suffering: He rediscovers
the "soul" which he thought he had "lost" ^[87]77 because of suffering.

24. Nevertheless, the apostle's experiences as a sharer in the
sufferings of Christ go even further. In the Letter to the Colossians
we read the words which constitute as it were the final stage of the
spiritual journey in relation to suffering: "Now I rejoice in my
sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I complete what is lacking in
Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is, the church"
^[88]78. And in another letter he asks his readers: "Do you not know
that your bodies are members of Christ?" ^[89]79.

In the paschal mystery of Christ began the union with man in the
community of the church. The mystery of the church is expressed in
this: that already in the act of [90]baptism, which brings about a
configuration with Christ, and then through his sacrifice -
sacramentally through the eucharist - the church is continually built
up spiritually as the body of Christ. In this body, Christ wishes to be
united with every individual, and in a special way he is united with
those who suffer. The words quoted above from the Letter to the
Colossians bear witness to the exceptional nature of this union. For,
whoever suffers in union with Christ - just as the apostle Paul bears
his "tribulations" in union with Christ - not only receives from Christ
that strength already referred to, but also "completes" by this
suffering "what is lacking in Christ's afflictions." This evangelical
outlook especially highlights the truth concerning the creative
character of suffering. The sufferings of Christ created the good of
the world's redemption. This good in itself is inexhaustible and
infinite. No man can add anything to it. But at the same time, in the
mystery of the church as his body, Christ has in a sense opened his own
redemptive suffering to all human suffering. Insofar as man becomes a
sharer in Christ's sufferings - in any part of the world and at any
time in history - to that extent he in his own way completes the
suffering through which Christ accomplished the redemption of the
world.

Does this mean that the redemption achieved by Christ is not complete?
No. It only means that the redemption, accomplished through
satisfactory love, remains always open to all love expressed in human
suffering. In this dimension - the dimension of love - the redemption
which has already been completely accomplished is in a certain sense
constantly being accomplished. Christ achieved the redemption
completely and to the very limit: but at the same time he did not bring
it to a close. In this redemptive suffering, through which the
redemption of the world was accomplished, Christ opened himself from
the beginning to every human suffering and constantly does so. Yes, it
seems to be part of the very essence of Christ's redemptive suffering
that this suffering requires to be unceasingly completed.

Thus, with this openness to every human suffering, Christ has
accomplished the world's redemption through his own suffering. For at
the same time this redemption, even though it was completely achieved
by Christ's suffering, lives on and in its own special way develops in
the history of man. It lives and develops as the body of Christ, the
church, and in this dimension every human suffering, by reason of the
loving union with Christ, completes the suffering of Christ. It
completes that suffering just as the church completes the redemptive
work of Christ. The mystery of the church - that body which completes
in itself also Christ's crucified and risen body - indicates at the
same time the space and context in which human sufferings complete the
sufferings of Christ. Only within this radius and dimension of the
church as the body of Christ, which continually develops in space and
time, can one think and speak of "what is lacking" in the sufferings of
Christ. The apostle, in fact, makes this clear when he writes of
"completing what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his
body, that is the church."

It is precisely the church which ceaselessly draws on the infinite
resources of the redemption, introducing it into the life of humanity,
which is the dimension in which the redemptive suffering of Christ can
be constantly completed by the suffering of man. This also highlights
the divine and human nature of the church. Suffering seems in some way
to share in the characteristics of this nature. And for this reason
suffering also has a special value in the eyes of the church. It is
something good, before which the church bows down in reverence with all
the depth of her faith in the redemption. She likewise bows down with
all the depth of that faith with which she embraces within herself the
inexpressible mystery of the body of Christ.

VI. The Gospel of Suffering

25. The witnesses of the cross and resurrection of Christ have handed
on to the church and to mankind a specific gospel of suffering. The
Redeemer himself wrote this gospel, above all by his own suffering
accepted in love, so that man "should not perish but have eternal life"
^[91]80. This suffering, together with the living word of his teaching,
became a rich source for all those who shared in Jesus' sufferings
among the first generation of his disciples and confessors and among
those who have come after them down the centuries.

It is especially consoling to note - and also accurate in accordance
with the Gospel and history - that at the side of Christ, in the first
and most exalted place, there is always his mother through the
exemplary testimony that she bears by her whole life to this particular
gospel of suffering. In her, the many and intense sufferings were
amassed in such an interconnected way that they were not only a proof
of her unshakable faith but also a contribution to the redemption of
all. In reality, from the time of her secret conversation with the
angel, she began to see in her mission as a mother her "destiny" to
share in a singular and unrepeatable way in the very mission of her
son. And she very soon received a confirmation of this in the events
that accompanied the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem and in the solemn
words of the aged Simeon, when he spoke of a sharp sword that would
pierce her heart. Yet a further confirmation was in the anxieties and
privations of the hurried flight into Egypt, caused by the cruel
decision of Herod.

And again, after the events of her son's hidden and public life, events
which she must have shared with acute sensitivity, it was on Calvary
that Mary's suffering, beside the suffering of Jesus, reached an
intensity which can hardly be imagined from a human point of view but
which was mysterious and supernaturally fruitful for the redemption of
the world. Her ascent of Calvary and her standing at the foot of the
cross together with the beloved disciple were a special sort of sharing
in the redeeming death of her son. And the words which she heard from
his lips were a kind of solemn handing over of this gospel of suffering
so that it could be proclaimed to the whole community of believers.

As a witness to her son's passion by her presence and as a sharer in it
by her compassion, Mary offered a unique contribution to the gospel of
suffering by embodying in anticipation the expression of Saint Paul
which was quoted at the beginning. She truly has a special title to be
able to claim that she "completes in her flesh" - as already in her
heart - "what is lacking in Christ's afflictions."

In the light of the unmatchable example of Christ, reflected with
singular clarity in the life of his mother, the gospel of suffering,
through the experiences and words of the apostles, becomes an
inexhaustible source for the ever-new generations that succeed one
another in the history of the church. The gospel of suffering signifies
not only the presence of suffering in the Gospel, as one of the themes
of the good news, but also the revelation of the salvific power and
salvific significance of suffering in Christ's messianic mission and
subsequently in the mission and vocation of the church.

Christ did not conceal from his listeners the need for suffering. He
said very clearly: "If any man would come after me ... let him take up
his cross daily" ^[92]81, and before his disciples he placed demands of
a moral nature that can only be fulfilled on condition that they should
"deny themselves" ^[93]82. The way that leads to the kingdom of heaven
is "hard and narrow," and Christ contrasts it to the "wide and easy"
way that "leads to destruction" ^[94]83. On various occasions Christ
also said that his disciples and confessors would meet with much
persecution, something which - as we know - happened not only in the
first centuries of the church's life under the Roman empire, but also
came true in various historical periods and in other parts of the
world, and still does even in our own time.

Here are some of Christ's statements on the subject:

  "They will lay their hands on you and persecute you, deliver you up
  to the synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings
  and governors for my name's sake. This will be a time for you to
  bear testimony. Settle it therefore in your minds, not to meditate
  beforehand how to answer; for I will give you a mouth and wisdom,
  which none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or
  contradict. You will be delivered up even by parents and brothers
  and kinsmen and friends, and some of you they will put to death; you
  will be hated by all for my name's sake. But not a hair on your head
  will perish. By your endurance you will gain your lives" ^[95]84.

The gospel of suffering speaks first in various places of suffering
"for Christ," "for the sake of Christ," and it does so with the words
of Jesus himself or the words of his apostles. The Master does not
conceal the prospect of suffering from his disciples and followers. On
the contrary, he reveals it with all frankness, indicating at the same
time the supernatural assistance that will accompany them in the midst
of persecutions and tribulations "for my name's sake." These
persecutions and tribulations will also be, as it were, a particular
proof of likeness to Christ and union with him. "It the world hates
you, know that it has hated me before it hated you ...; but because you
are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the
world hates you ... A servant is not greater than his master. If they
persecuted me they will persecute you ... But all this they will do to
you on my account, because they do not know him who sent me" ^[96]85.
"I have said this to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world
you have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world"
^[97]86.

This first chapter of the gospel of suffering, which speaks of
persecutions, namely of tribulations experienced because of Christ,
contains in itself a special call to courage and fortitude, sustained
by the eloquence of the resurrection. Christ has overcome the world
definitively by his resurrection. Yet because of the relationship
between the resurrection and his passion and death, he has at the same
time overcome the world by his suffering. Yes, suffering has been
singularly present in that victory over the world which was manifested
in the resurrection. Christ retains in his risen body the marks of the
wounds of the cross in his hands, feet and side. Through the
resurrection he manifests the victorious power of suffering, and he
wishes to imbue with the conviction of this power the hearts of those
whom he chose as apostles and those whom he continually chooses and
sends forth. The apostle Paul will say: "All who desire to live a godly
life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted" ^[98]87.

26. While the first great chapter of the gospel of suffering is written
down, as the generations pass, by those who suffer persecutions for
Christ's sake, simultaneously another great chapter of this gospel
unfolds through the course of history. This chapter is written by all
those who suffer together with Christ, united their human sufferings to
his salvific suffering. In these people there is fulfilled what the
first witnesses of the passion and resurrection said and wrote about
sharing in the sufferings of Christ. Therefore in those people there is
fulfilled the gospel of suffering, and at the same time each of them
continues in a certain sense to write it: They write it and proclaim it
to the world, they announce it to the world in which they live and to
the people of their time.

Down through the centuries and generations it has been seen that in
suffering there is concealed a particular power that draws a person
interiorly close to Christ, a special grace. To this grace many saints,
such as Saint Francis of Assisi, and Saint Ignatius of Loyola and
others, owe their profound conversion. A result of such a conversion is
not only that the individual discovers the salvific meaning of
suffering, but above all that he becomes a completely new person. He
discovers a new dimension, as it were, of his entire life and vocation.
This discovery is a particular confirmation of the spiritual greatness
which in man surpasses the body in a way that is completely beyond
compare. When the body is gravely ill, totally incapacitated, and the
person is almost incapable of living and acting, all the more do
interior maturity and spiritual greatness become evident, constituting
a touching lesson to those who are healthy and normal.

This interior maturity and spiritual greatness in suffering are
certainly the result of a particular conversion and cooperation with
the grace of the crucified Redeemer. It is he himself who acts at the
heart of human sufferings through his Spirit of truth, through the
consoling Spirit. It is he who transforms in a certain sense the very
substance of spiritual life, indicating for the person who suffers a
place close to himself. It is he - as the interior master and guide -
who reveals to the suffering brother and sister this wonderful
interchange, situated at the very heart of the mystery of the
redemption. Suffering is in itself an experience of evil. But Christ
has made suffering the firmest basis of the definitive good, namely the
good of eternal salvation. By his suffering on the cross, Christ
reached the very roots of evil, of sin and death. He conquered the
author of evil, Satan, and his permanent rebellion against the Creator.
To the suffering brother or sister Christ discloses and gradually
reveals the horizons of the kingdom of God: the horizons of a world
converted to the Creator, of a world free from sin, a world being built
on the saving power of love. And slowly but effectively, Christ leads
into this world, into this kingdom of the Father, suffering man, in a
certain sense through the very heart of his suffering. For suffering
cannot be transformed and changed by a grace from the outside, but from
within. And Christ through his own salvific suffering is very much
present in every human suffering and can act from within that suffering
by the powers of his spirit of truth, his consoling Spirit.

This is not all: The divine Redeemer wishes to penetrate the soul of
every sufferer through the heart of his holy mother, the first and the
most exalted of the redeemed. As though by a continuation of that
motherhood, which by the power of the Holy Spirit had given him life,
the dying Christ conferred upon the ever-Virgin Mary a new kind of
motherhood - spiritual and universal - toward all human beings, so that
every individual, during the pilgrimage of faith, might remain,
together with her, closely united to him unto the cross and so that
every form of suffering, given fresh life by the power of this cross,
should become no longer the weakness of man, but the power of God.

However, this interior process does not always follow the same pattern.
It often begins and is set in motion with great difficulty. Even the
very point of departure differs: People react to suffering in different
ways. But in general it can be said that almost always the individual
enters suffering with a typically human protest and with the question
why. He asks the meaning of his suffering and seeks an answer to this
question on the human level. Certainly he often puts this question to
God and to Christ. Furthermore, he cannot help noticing that the one to
whom he puts the question is himself suffering and wishes to answer him
from the cross, from the heart of his own suffering. Nevertheless, it
often takes time, even a long time, for this answer to begin to be
interiorly perceived. For Christ does not answer directly and he does
not answer in the abstract this human questioning about the meaning of
suffering. Man hears Christ's saving answer as he himself gradually
becomes a sharer in the suffering of Christ.

The answer which comes through this sharing by way of the interior
encounter with the Master is in itself something more than the mere
abstract answer to the question about the meaning of suffering. For it
is above all a call. It is a vocation. Christ does not explain in the
abstract the reasons for suffering, but before all else he says:
"Follow me!" Come! Take part though your suffering in this work of
saving the world, a salvation achieved through my suffering! Through my
cross. Gradually, as the individual takes up his cross, spiritually
uniting himself to the cross of Christ, the salvific meaning of
suffering is revealed before him. He does not discover this meaning at
his own human level, but at the level of the suffering of Christ. At
the same time, however, from this level of Christ the salvific meaning
of suffering descends to man's level and becomes in a sense the
individual's personal response. It is then that man finds in his
suffering interior peace and even spiritual joy.

27. Saint Paul speaks of such joy in the Letter to the Colossians: "I
rejoice in my sufferings for your sake" ^[99]88. A source of joy is
found in the overcoming of the sense of the uselessness of suffering, a
feeling that is sometimes very strongly rooted in human suffering. This
feeling not only consumes the person interiorly, but seems to make him
a burden to others. The person feels condemned to receive help and
assistance from others and at the same time seems useless to himself.
The discovery of the salvific meaning of suffering in union with Christ
transforms this depressing feeling. Faith in sharing in the suffering
of Christ brings with it the interior certainty that the suffering
person "completes what is lacking in Christ's afflictions"; the
certainty that in the spiritual dimension of the work of the redemption
he is serving, like Christ, the salvation of his brothers and sisters.
Therefore he is carrying out an irreplaceable service. In the body of
Christ, which is ceaselessly born of the cross of the Redeemer, it is
precisely suffering permeated by the spirit of Christ's sacrifice that
is the irreplaceable mediator and author of the good things which are
indispensable for the world's salvation. It is suffering, more than
anything else, which clears the way for the grace which transforms
human souls. Suffering, more than anything else, makes present in the
history of humanity the powers of the redemption. In that "cosmic"
struggle between the spiritual powers of good and evil, spoken of in
the Letter to the Ephesians ^[100]89, human sufferings, united to the
redemptive suffering of Christ, constitute a special support for the
powers of good and open the way to the victory of these salvific
powers.

And so the church sees in all Christ's sufferings brothers and sisters
as it were a multiple subject of his supernatural power. How often is
it precisely to them that the pastors of the church appeal and
precisely from them that they seek help and support! The gospel of
suffering is being written unceasingly, and it speaks unceasingly with
the words of this strange paradox: The springs of divine power gush
forth precisely in the midst of human weakness. Those who share in the
sufferings of Christ preserve in their own sufferings a very special
particle of the infinite treasure of the world's redemption and can
share this treasure with others. The more a person is threatened by
sin, the heavier the structures of sin which today's world brings with
it, the greater is the eloquence which human suffering possesses in
itself. And the more the church feels the need to have recourse to the
value of human sufferings for the salvation of the world.

VII. The Good Samaritan

28. To the gospel of suffering there also belongs - and in an organic
way - the parable of the Good Samaritan. Through this parable Christ
wished to give an answer to the question: "Who is my neighbor?"
^[101]90. For of the three travelers along the road from Jerusalem to
Jericho, on which there lay half dead a man who had been stripped and
beaten by robbers, it was precisely the Samaritan who showed himself to
be the real "neighbor" of the victim: "Neighbor" means also the person
who carried out the commandment of love of neighbor. Two other men were
passing along the same road; one was a priest and the other a Levite,
but each of them "saw him and passed by on the other side." The
Samaritan, on the other hand, "saw him and had compassion on him. He
went to him ... and bound up his wounds," then "brought him to an inn,
and took care of him" ^[102]91. And when he left, he solicitously
entrusted the suffering man to the care of the innkeeper, promising to
meet any expenses.

The parable of the Good Samaritan belongs to the gospel of suffering.
For it indicates what the relationship of each of us must be toward our
suffering neighbor. We are not allowed to "pass by on the other side"
indifferently; we must "stop" beside him. Everyone who stops beside the
suffering of another person, whatever form it may take, is a good
Samaritan. This stopping does not mean curiosity, but availability. It
is like the opening of a certain interior disposition of the heart,
which also has an emotional expression of its own. The name "good
Samaritan" fits every individual who is sensitive to the sufferings of
others, who "is moved" by the misfortune of another. If Christ, who
know the interior of man, emphasizes this compassion, this means that
it is important for our whole attitude to others' suffering. Therefore
one must cultivate this sensitivity of heart, which bears witness to
compassion toward a suffering person. Sometimes this compassion remains
the only or principal expression of our love for and solidarity with
the sufferer.

Nevertheless, the good Samaritan of Christ's parable does not stop at
sympathy and compassion alone. They become form for him and incentive
to actions aimed at bringing help to the injured man. In a word then, a
good Samaritan is one who brings help in suffering, a whatever its
nature may be. Help which is, as far as possible, effective. He puts
his whole heart into it, nor does he spare material means. We can say
that he gives himself, his very "I," opening this "I" to the other
person. Here we touch upon one of the key points of all Christian
anthropology. Man cannot "fully find himself except though a sincere
gift of himself" ^[103]92. A good Samaritan is the person capable of
exactly such a gift of self.

29. Following the parable of the Gospel, we could say that suffering,
which is present under so many different forms in our human world, is
also present in order to unleash love in the human person, that
unselfish gift of one's "I" on behalf of other people, especially those
who suffer. The world of human suffering unceasingly calls for, so to
speak, another world: the world of human love; and in a certain sense
man owes to suffering that unselfish love which stirs in his heart and
actions. The person who is a "neighbor" can not indifferently pass by
the suffering of another: this is the name of fundamental human
solidarity, still more in the name of love of neighbor. He must "stop,"
"sympathize," just like the Samaritan of the gospel parable. The
parable in itself expresses a deeply Christian truth, but one that at
the same time is very universally human. It is not without reason that
also in ordinary speech any activity on behalf of the suffering and
needy is called "good Samaritan" work.

In the course of the centuries this activity assumes organized
institutional forms and constitutes a field of work in the respective
professions. How much there is of "the good Samaritan" in the
profession of the doctor, or the nurse or others similar! Considering
its "evangelical" content, we are inclined to think here of a vocation
rather than simply a profession. And the institutions which from
generation to generation have performed "good Samaritan" service have
developed and specialized even further in our times. This undoubtedly
proves that people today pay ever greater and closer attention to the
sufferings of their neighbor, seek to understand those sufferings and
deal with them with ever greater skill. They also have an ever greater
capacity and specialization in this area. In view of all this we can
say that the parable of the Samaritan of the Gospel has become one of
the essential elements of moral culture and universally human
civilization. And thinking of all those who by their knowledge and
ability provide many kinds of service to their suffering neighbor, we
cannot but offer them words of thanks and gratitude.

These words are directed to all those who exercise their own service to
their suffering neighbor in an unselfish way, freely undertaking to
provide "good Samaritan" help and devoting to this cause all the time
and energy at their disposal outside their professional work. This kind
of voluntary "good Samaritan" or charitable activity can be called
social work; it can also be called an apostolate when it is undertaken
for clearly evangelical motives, especially if this is in connection
with the church or another Christian communion. Voluntary "good
Samaritan" work is carried out in appropriate milieu or through
organizations created for this purpose. Working in this way has a great
importance, especially if it involves undertaking larger tasks which
require cooperation and the use of technical means. No less valuable is
individual activity, especially by people who are better prepared for
it in regard to the various kinds of human suffering which can only be
alleviated in an individual or personal way. Finally, family help means
both acts of love of neighbor done to members of the same family and
mutual help between families.

It is difficult to list here all the types and different circumstance
of "good Samaritan" work which exit in the church and society. It must
be recognized that they are very numerous, and one must express
satisfaction at the fact that, thanks to them, the fundamental moral
values such as the value of human solidarity, the value of Christian
love of neighbor, form the framework of social life and interhuman
relationships and combat on this front the various forms of hatred,
violence, cruelty, contempt for others or simple "insensitivity," in
other words, indifference toward one's neighbor and his sufferings.

Here we come to the enormous importance of having the right attitudes
in education. The family, the school and other education institutions
must, if only for humanitarian reasons, work perseveringly for the
reawakening and refining of that sensitivity toward one's neighbor and
his suffering of which the figure of the Good Samaritan in the Gospel
has become a symbol. Obviously the church must do the same. She must
even more profoundly make her own - as far as possible - the
motivations which Christ placed in his parable and in the whole Gospel.
The eloquence of the parable of the Good Samaritan and of the whole
Gospel is especially this: Every individual must feel as it called
personally to bear witness to love in suffering. The institutions are
very important and indispensable; nevertheless, no institution can by
itself replace the human heart, human compassion, human love or human
initiative, when it is a question of dealing with the sufferings of
another. This refers to physical sufferings, but it is even more true
when it is a question of the many kinds of moral suffering and when it
is primarily the soul that is suffering.

30. The parable of the Good Samaritan, which - as we have said -
belongs to the gospel of suffering, goes hand in hand with this gospel
through the history of the church and Christianity, through the history
of man and humanity. This parable witnesses to the fact that Christ's
revelation of the salvific meaning of suffering is in no way identified
with an attitude of passivity. Completely the reverse is true. The
Gospel is the negation of passivity in the face of suffering. Christ
himself is especially active in this field. In this way he accomplishes
the messianic program of his mission, according to the words of the
prophet:

  "The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to
  preach good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim release to
  the captives and recovering sight to the blind, to set at liberty
  those who are oppressed, to proclaim the acceptable year of the
  Lord" ^[104]93.

In a superabundant way Christ carries out this messianic program of his
mission: He goes about "doing good" ^[105]94, and the good of his works
became especially evident in the face of human suffering. The parable
of the Good Samaritan is in profound harmony with the conduct of Christ
himself.

Finally, this parable, through its essential content, will enter into
those disturbing words of the Final Judgement, noted by Matthew in his
Gospel: "Come, O blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for
you from the foundation of the world: for I was hungry and you gave me
food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you
welcomed me, I was in prison and you came to me" ^[106]95. To the just,
who ask when they did all this to him, the Son of Man will respond:
"Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my
brethren, you did it to me" ^[107]96. The opposite sentence will be
imposed on those who have behaved differently: "As you did it not to
one of the least of these, you did it not to me" ^[108]97.

One could certainly extend the list of the forms of suffering that have
encountered human sensitivity, compassion and help or that have failed
to do so. The first and second parts of Christ's words about the Final
Judgement unambiguously show how essential it is for the eternal life
of the individual to "stop," as the Good Samaritan did, at that
suffering and to give some help. In the messianic program of Christ,
which is at the same time the program of the kingdom of God, suffering
is present in the world in order to release love, in order to giver
birth to works of love toward neighbor, in order to transform the whole
of human civilization into a "civilization of love." In this love the
salvific meaning of suffering is completely accomplished and reaches
its definitive dimension. Christ's words about the Final Judgement
enable us to understand this in all the simplicity and clarity of the
Gospel.

These words about love, about actions of love, acts linked with human
suffering, enable us once more to discover at the basis of all human
sufferings the same redemptive suffering of Christ. Christ said: "You
did it to me." He himself is the one who in each individual experiences
love; he himself is the one who receives help when this is given to
every suffering person without exception. He himself is present in this
suffering person, since his salvific suffering has been opened once and
for all for all to every human suffering. And all those who suffer have
been called once and for all to become sharers "in Christ's sufferings"
^[109]98, just as all have been called to "complete" with their own
suffering "what is lacking in Christ's afflictions" ^[110]99. At one
and the same time Christ has taught man to do good by his suffering and
to do good to those who suffer. In this double respect he has
completely revealed the meaning of suffering.

VIII. Conclusion

31. This is the meaning of suffering, which is truly supernatural and
at the same time human. It is supernatural because it is rooted in the
divine mystery of the redemption of the world, and it is likewise
deeply human because in it the person discovers himself, his own
humanity, his own dignity, his own mission.

Suffering is certainly part of the mystery of man. Perhaps suffering is
not wrapped up as much as man in this mystery, which is an especially
impenetrable one. The Second Vatican Council expressed this truth that
"only in the mystery of the incarnate word does the mystery of man take
on light. In fact ... Christ, the final Adam, by the revelation of the
mystery of the Father and his love, fully reveals man to himself and
makes his supreme calling clear" ^[111]100. If these words refer to
everything that concerns the mystery of man, then they certainly rever
in a very special way to human suffering. Precisely at this point the
"revealing of man to himself and making his supreme vocation clear" is
particularly indispensable. It also happens - as experience proves -
that this can be particularly dramatic. But when it is completely
accomplished and becomes the light of human life, it is particularly
blessed. "Through Christ and in Christ, the riddles of sorrow and death
grow meaningful" ^[112]101.

I now end the present considerations on suffering in the year in which
the church is living the extraordinary jubilee linked to the
anniversary of the redemption.

The mystery of the redemption of the world is in an amazing way rooted
in suffering, and this suffering in turn finds in the mystery of the
redemption its supreme and surest point of reference.

We wish to live this year of the redemption in special union with all
those who suffer. And so there should come together in spirit beneath
the cross on Calvary all suffering people who believe in Christ and
particularly those who suffer because of their faith in him who is the
crucified and risen one, so that the offering of their sufferings may
hasten the fulfillment of the prayer of the Savior himself that all may
be one ^[113]102. Let there also gather beneath the cross all people of
good will, for on this cross is the "Redeemer or man," the Man of
Sorrows, who has taken upon himself the physical and moral sufferings
of the people of all times, so that in love they may find the salvific
meaning of their sorrow and valid answers to all of their questions.

Together with Mary, mother of Christ, who stood beneath the cross
^[114]103, we pause beside all the crosses of contemporary man.

We invoke all the saints, who down through the centuries in a special
way shared in the suffering of Christ. We ask them to support us.

And we ask all you who suffer to support us. We ask precisely you who
are weak to become a source of strength for the church and humanity. In
the terrible battle between the forces of good and evil revealed to our
eyes by our modern world, may your suffering in union with the cross of
Christ be victorious!

To all of you, dearest brothers and sisters, I send my apostolic
blessing.

Given at Rome, at Saint Peter's, on the liturgical memorial of Our Lady
of Lourdes, [115]11 February [116]1984, in the sixth year of my
pontificate.

- John Paul II
  __________________________________________________________________

 1. Colossians 1:24 [117]&#8617;
 2. Ibid. [118]&#8617;
 3. Romans 8:22 [119]&#8617;
 4. Cf. John Paul II, Redemptor Hominis, nos. 14, 18, 22, AAS 71
    (1979), 284f, 304, 320, 323. [120]&#8617;
 5. As Hezekiah [121]&#8617;
 6. As Hagar feared (cf Genesis 15-16), as Jacob imagined (cf. Genesis
    37:33-35), as David experienced (cf. 2 Samuel 19:1). [122]&#8617;
 7. As Anna, the mother of Tobias, feared (cf. Tb. 10:1-7); cf. also
    Jer. 6:26; Am. 8-10; Zec. 12:10. [123]&#8617;
 8. Such was the trial of Abraham (cf. Genesis 15:2), of Rachel (cf.
    Genesis 30:1) or of Anna, the mother of Samuel (cf. 1 Samuel
    1:6-10). [124]&#8617;
 9. Such was the lament of the exiles in Babylon (cf. Ps. 137 (136)).
    [125]&#8617;
10. Suffered, for example by the psalmist (cf. Ps 22 (21):17-21) or by
    Jeremiah (Cf. Jer. 18:18). [126]&#8617;
11. This was a trial for Job (cf. Jb. 18-19; 30:1-9), for some
    psalmists (cf. Ps. 22(21):7-9; 42(41):11; 44(43):16-17, for
    Jeremiah (cf. Jer. 20:7), for the suffering servant (cf. Is. 53:3).
    [127]&#8617;
12. Which certain psalmists had to suffer again (cf. 22(21):2-3;
    31(30):13; 38(37):12; 88(87):9-19), Jeremiah (cf. Jer. 15:17) or
    the suffering servant (cf. Isaiah 53:3). [128]&#8617;
13. Of the psalmist (cf. 51(50):5), or the witnesses of the sufferings
    of the servant (cf. Isaiah 53:3-6), of the prophet Zechariah (cf.
    Zec. 12;10). [129]&#8617;
14. This was strongly felt by the psalmist (cf. Psalm 73(72):3-14) and
    Qoheleth (cf. Eccl. 4:1-3). [130]&#8617;
15. This was a suffering for Job (cf. Jb. 10:19), for certain psalmists
    (cf. Ps. 41(40):10; 55(54):13-15), for Jeremiah (cf. Jeremiah
    20:10), while Sirach meditated on this misery (cf. Sirach 37:1-6).
    [131]&#8617;
16. Besides numerous passages of Lamentations, cf. the laments of the
    psalmists (cf. Psalm 44(43):10-17; 77(76):11; 89(88):51) or of the
    prophets (cf. Isaiah 22:4; Jeremiah 4:8; 13:17; 14:17-18; Ez 9:8;
    21:11-12); also cf. the prayers of Azariah (cf. Daniel 3;31-40) and
    of Daniel (cf. Daniel 9:16-19). [132]&#8617;
17. For example Isaiah 38:13; Jeremiah 23:9; Psalm 31(30):10-11; Psalm
    42(41):10-11. [133]&#8617;
18. For example Psalm 73(72):21; Jb. 16:13; Lamentations 3:13.
    [134]&#8617;
19. For example Lamentations 2:11. [135]&#8617;
20. For example Is. 16:11; Jer. 4:19; Jb. 30:27; Lam. 1:20.
    [136]&#8617;
21. For example 1 Sm. 1:8; Jer. 4:19; Jer. 8:18; Lam. 1:20-22; Ps.
    38(37):9-11. [137]&#8617;
22. In this regard it is useful to remember that the Hebrew root r"
    designates in a comprehensive way what is evil, as opposed to what
    is good (tob), without distinguishing between the physical,
    psychological and ethical sense. The root is found in the
    substantive form ra' and ra'a indicating indifferently evil in
    itself, or the evil action or the individual who does it. In the
    verbal forms, besides the simple one (qal) variously designating
    "being evil," there are the reflexive-passive form (niphal) "to
    endure evil," "to be affected by evil" and the causative form
    (hiphil) "to do evil," "to inflict evil" on someone. Since the
    Hebrew lacks a true equivalent to the Greek pascho, "I suffer,"
    this verb too occurs rarely in the Septuagint translation.
    [138]&#8617;
23. Dn. 3:27-28ff; cf. Ps. 19(18):10; 36(35):7; 48(47):12; 51(50):6;
    99(98):4; 119(118):75; Mal. 3:16-21; Mt. 20:16; Mk. 10:31; Lk.
    17:34; Jn. 5:30; Rom. 2:2. [139]&#8617;
24. Jb. 4:8. [140]&#8617;
25. Jb. 1:9-11. [141]&#8617;
26. 2 Mc. 6:12. [142]&#8617;
27. Jn. 3:16. [143]&#8617;
28. Jb. 19:25-26. [144]&#8617;
29. Jn. 1:29. [145]&#8617;
30. Gn. 3:19. [146]&#8617;
31. Jn. 3:16. [147]&#8617;
32. Acts 10:38. [148]&#8617;
33. Cf. Mt. 5:3-11. [149]&#8617;
34. Cf. Luke 6:12. [150]&#8617;
35. Mark 10:33-34. [151]&#8617;
36. Cf. Mt. 16:23. [152]&#8617;
37. Mt. 26:52, 54. [153]&#8617;
38. Jn. 18:11. [154]&#8617;
39. John 3:16. [155]&#8617;
40. Galatians 2:20 [156]&#8617;
41. Isaiah 53:2-6. [157]&#8617;
42. John 1:29. [158]&#8617;
43. Isaiah 53:7-9. [159]&#8617;
44. Cf. 1 Corinthians 1:18. [160]&#8617;
45. Matthew 26:39. [161]&#8617;
46. Matthew 26:42. [162]&#8617;
47. Psalm 22 (21):2. [163]&#8617;
48. Isaiah 53:6. [164]&#8617;
49. 2 Corinthians 5:21. [165]&#8617;
50. John 19:30. [166]&#8617;
51. Isaiah 53:10. [167]&#8617;
52. Cf. John 7:37-38. [168]&#8617;
53. Isaiah 53:10-12. [169]&#8617;
54. Job 19:25. [170]&#8617;
55. 1 Pt. 1:18-19. [171]&#8617;
56. Galatians 1:4. [172]&#8617;
57. 1 Corinthians 6:20. [173]&#8617;
58. 2 Corinthians 4:8-11, 14. [174]&#8617;
59. 2 Corinthians 1:5. [175]&#8617;
60. 2 Thessalonians 3:5. [176]&#8617;
61. Romans 12:1. [177]&#8617;
62. Galatians 2:19-20. [178]&#8617;
63. Galatians 6:14. [179]&#8617;
64. Philemon 3:10-11. [180]&#8617;
65. Acts 14:22. [181]&#8617;
66. 2 Thessalonians 1:4-5. [182]&#8617;
67. Romans 8:17-18. [183]&#8617;
68. 2 Corinthians 4:17-18. [184]&#8617;
69. 1 Pt. 4:13. [185]&#8617;
70. Lk. 23:34. [186]&#8617;
71. Matthew 10:28. [187]&#8617;
72. 2 Corinthians 12:9. [188]&#8617;
73. 2 Timothy 1:12. [189]&#8617;
74. Philemon 4:13. [190]&#8617;
75. 1 Pt. 4:16. [191]&#8617;
76. Romans 5:3-5. [192]&#8617;
77. Cf. Mark 8:35; Luke 9:24; John 12:25. [193]&#8617;
78. Colossians 1:24. [194]&#8617;
79. 1 Corinthians 6:15. [195]&#8617;
80. John 3.16. [196]&#8617;
81. Luke 9:23. [197]&#8617;
82. Cf. Luke 9:23. [198]&#8617;
83. Cf. Matthew 7:13-14. [199]&#8617;
84. Luke 21:12-19. [200]&#8617;
85. John 15:18-21. [201]&#8617;
86. John 16:33. [202]&#8617;
87. 2 Timothy 3:12. [203]&#8617;
88. Colossians 1:24. [204]&#8617;
89. Cf. Ephesians 6:12. [205]&#8617;
90. Luke 10:29. [206]&#8617;
91. Luke 10:33-34. [207]&#8617;
92. Gaudium et Spes, 24. [208]&#8617;
93. Lk. 4:18-19; cf. Is. 61:1-2. [209]&#8617;
94. Acts 10:38. [210]&#8617;
95. Matthew 25:34-36. [211]&#8617;
96. Matthew 25:40. [212]&#8617;
97. Matthew 25:45. [213]&#8617;
98. 1 Pt. 4:13. [214]&#8617;
99. Colossians 1:24. [215]&#8617;
100. Gaudium et Spes, 22. [216]&#8617;
101. Ibid. [217]&#8617;
102. Cf. John 17:11, 21-22. [218]&#8617;
103. Cf. John 19:25. [219]&#8617;

