____________________

[8]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 17 June 2009 - Saints Cyril and
Methodius

1. Today I would like to
talk about Saint Cyril and Methodius, brothers by blood and in the
faith, the so-called "Apostles to the Slavs". Cyril was born in
Thessalonica to Leo, an imperial magistrate, in 826 or 827. He was the
youngest of seven. As a child he learned the Slavonic language. When he
was 14 years old he was sent to Constantinople to be educated and was
companion to the young Emperor, Michael III. In those years Cyril was
introduced to the various university disciplines, including dialectics,
and his teacher was Photius. After refusing a brilliant marriage he
decided to receive holy Orders and became "librarian" at the
Patriarchate. Shortly afterwards, wishing to retire in solitude, he
went into hiding at a monastery but was soon discovered and entrusted
with teaching the sacred and profane sciences. He carried out this
office so well that he earned the nickname of "Philosopher". In the
meantime, his brother Michael (born in about 815), left the world after
an administrative career in Macedonia, and withdrew to a monastic life
on Mount Olympus in Bithynia, where he was given the name "Methodius"
(a monk's monastic name had to begin with the same letter as his
baptismal name) and became hegumen of the Monastery of Polychron.

Attracted by his brother's example, Cyril too decided to give up
teaching and go to Mount Olympus to meditate and pray. A few years
later (in about 861), the imperial government sent him on a mission to
the Khazars on the Sea of Azov who had asked for a scholar to be sent
to them who could converse with both Jews and Saracens. Cyril,
accompanied by his brother Methodius, stayed for a long time in Crimea
where he learned Hebrew and sought the body of Pope Clement I who had
been exiled there. Cyril found Pope Clement's tomb and, when he made
the return journey with his brother, he took Clement's precious relics
with him. Having arrived in Constantinople the two brothers were sent
to Moravia by the Emperor Michael III, who had received a specific
request from Prince Ratislav of Moravia: "Since our people rejected
paganism", Ratislav wrote to Michael, "they have embraced the Christian
law; but we do not have a teacher who can explain the true faith to us
in our own language". The mission was soon unusually successful. By
translating the liturgy into the Slavonic language the two brothers
earned immense popularity.

However, this gave rise to hostility among the Frankish clergy who had
arrived in Moravia before the Brothers and considered the territory to
be under their ecclesiastical jurisdiction. In order to justify
themselves, in 867 the two brothers travelled to Rome. On the way they
stopped in Venice, where they had a heated discussion with the
champions of the so-called "trilingual heresy" who claimed that there
were only three languages in which it was lawful to praise God: Hebrew,
Greek and Latin. The two brothers obviously forcefully opposed this
claim. In Rome Cyril and Methodius were received by Pope Adrian ii who
led a procession to meet them in order to give a dignified welcome to
Saint Clement's relics. The Pope had also realized the great importance
of their exceptional mission. Since the middle of the first millennium,
in fact, thousands of Slavs had settled in those territories located
between the two parts of the Roman Empire, the East and the West, whose
relations were fraught with tension. The Pope perceived that the Slav
peoples would be able to serve as a bridge and thereby help to preserve
the union between the Christians of both parts of the Empire. Thus he
did not hesitate to approve the mission of the two brothers in Great
Moravia, accepting and approving the use of the Slavonic language in
the liturgy. The Slavonic Books were laid on the altar of Saint Mary of
Phatmé (Saint Mary Major) and the liturgy in the Slavonic tongue was
celebrated in the Basilicas of Saint Peter, Saint Andrew and Saint
Paul.

Unfortunately, Cyril fell seriously ill in Rome. Feeling that his death
was at hand, he wanted to consecrate himself totally to God as a monk
in one of the Greek monasteries of the City (probably Santa Prassede)
and took the monastic name of Cyril (his baptismal name was
Constantine). He then insistently begged his brother Methodius, who in
the meantime had been ordained a Bishop, not to abandon their mission
in Moravia and to return to the peoples there. He addressed this prayer
to God: "Lord, my God... hear my prayers and keep the flock you have
entrusted to me faithful.... Free them from the heresy of the three
languages, gather them all in unity and make the people you have chosen
agree in the true faith and confession". He died on 14 February 869.

Faithful to the pledge he had made with his brother, Methodius returned
to Moravia and Pannonia (today, Hungary) the following year, 870, where
once again he encountered the violent aversion of the Frankish
missionaries who took him prisoner. He did not lose heart and when he
was released in 873, he worked hard to organize the Church and train a
group of disciples. It was to the merit of these disciples that it was
possible to survive the crisis unleashed after the death of Methodius
on 6 April 885: persecuted and imprisoned, some of them were sold as
slaves and taken to Venice where they were redeemed by a
Constantinopolitan official who allowed them to return to the countries
of the Slavonic Balkans. Welcomed in Bulgaria, they were able to
continue the mission that Methodius had begun and to disseminate the
Gospel in the "Land of the Rus". God with his mysterious Providence
thus availed himself of their persecution to save the work of the holy
Brothers. Literary documentation of their work is extant. It suffices
to think of texts such as the Evangeliarium (liturgical passages of the
New Testament), the Psalter, various liturgical texts in Slavonic, on
which both the Brothers had worked. Indeed, after Cyril's death, it is
to Methodius and to his disciples that we owe the translation of the
entire Sacred Scriptures, the Nomocanone and the Book of the Fathers.

Wishing now to sum up concisely the profile of the two Brothers, we
should first recall the enthusiasm with which Cyril approached the
writings of Saint Gregory of Nazianzus, learning from him the value of
language in the transmission of the Revelation. Saint Gregory had
expressed the wish that Christ would speak through him: "I am a servant
of the Word, so I put myself at the service of the Word". Desirous of
imitating Gregory in this service, Cyril asked Christ to deign to speak
in Slavonic through him. He introduced his work of translation with the
solemn invocation: "Listen, O all of you Slav Peoples, listen to the
word that comes from God, the word that nourishes souls, the word that
leads to the knowledge of God". In fact, a few years before the Prince
of Moravia had asked the Emperor Michael III to send missionaries to
his country, it seems that Cyril and his brother Methodius, surrounded
by a group of disciples, were already working on the project of
collecting the Christian dogmas in books written in Slavonic. The need
for new graphic characters closer to the language spoken was therefore
clearly apparent: so it was that the Glagolitic alphabet came into
being. Subsequently modified, it was later designated by the name
"Cyrillic", in honour of the man who inspired it. It was a crucial
event for the development of the Slav civilization in general. Cyril
and Methodius were convinced that the individual peoples could not
claim to have received the Revelation fully unless they had heard it in
their own language and read it in the characters proper to their own
alphabet.

Methodius had the merit of ensuring that the work begun by his brother
was not suddenly interrupted. While Cyril, the "Philosopher", was more
inclined to contemplation, Methodius on the other hand had a leaning
for the active life. Thanks to this he was able to lay the foundations
of the successive affirmation of what we might call the
"Cyrillian-Methodian idea": it accompanied the Slav peoples in the
different periods of their history, encouraging their cultural,
national and religious development. This was already recognized by Pope
Pius XI in his Apostolic Letter Quod Sanctum Cyrillum, in which he
described the two Brothers: "Sons of the East, with a Byzantine
homeland, of Greek origin, for the Roman missions to reap Slav
apostolic fruit" (AAS 19 [1927] 93-96). The historic role they played
was later officially proclaimed by Pope John Paul II who, with his
Apostolic Letter Egregiae Virtutis, declared them Co-Patrons of Europe,
together with Saint Benedict (31 December 1980; L'Osservatore Romano
English edition, 19 January 1981, p. 3).

Cyril and Methodius are in fact a classic example of what today is
meant by the term "inculturation": every people must integrate the
message revealed into its own culture and express its saving truth in
its own language. This implies a very demanding effort of "translation"
because it requires the identification of the appropriate words to
present anew, without distortion, the riches of the revealed word. The
two holy Brothers have left us a most important testimony of this, to
which the Church also looks today in order to draw from it inspiration
and guidelines.

