____________________

[8]Pope John Paul II - Address at the Martyr's Shrine at Huronia

1. Dear Brothers and Sisters in Christ,

Kwe! With this traditional Huron word of welcome I greet you all.
And I greet you, too, in the name of Jesus Christ who loves you and who
has called you out "of every race, language, people and nation"
(Revelations 5:9),to be one in his Body the Church. Truly [10]Canadians
are a people of many races and languages, and thus it gives me great
joy to pray with you at this holy place, the Martyrs' Shrine, which
stands as a symbol of the unity of faith in a diversity of cultures. I
greet those of you who have come from the far North and the rural areas
of Ontario, those from the cities to the South, those from outside
Ontario and from the United States as well. And in a special way I
greet the native peoples of Canada, the descendants of the first
inhabitants of this land, the North American Indians.

2. We are gathered at this site in Midland which is of great importance
in the history of [11]Canada and in the history of the [12]Church. Here
was once located the Shrine of Saint Marie which one of my
predecessors, [13]Pope [14]Urban VIII, designated in [15]1644 as a
place of [16]pilgrimage, the first of its kind in North America. Here
the first [17]Christians of Huronia found a "house of prayer and a home
of peace". And here today stands the Martyrs' Shrine, a symbol of hope
and faith, a symbol of the triumph of the Cross. The reading from Saint
Paul's Letter to the Romans, which we have just heard, helps us to
understand the meaning of this holy place, and what it was that gave
the martyrs the courage to lay down their lives in this land. It helps
us to understand the power that attracted the native peoples to the
faith. And this power was "the love of God made visible in Christ Jesus
our Lord" (Romans 8:30).

3 Saint Paul also tells us how firmly he believed in the love of Christ
and in its power to overcome all obstacles: "Nothing can come between
us and the love of Christ" (Rom 8:35). These are words which proceed
from the very depths of his being and out of his personal experience as
an Apostle. For this great missionary faced may trials and difficulties
in his zealous efforts to proclaim the Gospel. To the Corinthians he
writes: "I have been in danger from rivers and in danger from brigands,
in danger from my own people and in danger from pagans; in danger in
the towns, in danger in the open country, danger at sea and danger from
so-called brothers. I have worked and laboured, often without sleep; I
have been hungry and thirsty and often starving; I have been in the
cold without clothes, and, to leave out much more, there is my daily
preoccupation: my anxiety for all the churches" (2 Corinthians
11:26-28). And yet, Paul glories in these hardships and says of them,
"These are the trials through which we triumph, by the power of him who
loved us" (Romans 8:37). All these hardships he gladly bears because he
is convinced of the love of Christ, and that nothing can ever separate
him from that love.

4. A similar confidence in God's love guided the lives of the Martyrs
who are honoured at this Shrine. They, like Paul, had come to consider
the love of Christ as the greatest of all treasures. And they, too,
believed that the love of Christ was so strong that nothing could
separate them from it, not even persecution and death. The North
American Martyrs, then, gave up their lives for the sake of the Gospel
- in order to bring the faith to the native people whom they served. In
fact, we are told that their faith was so strong that they yearned and
prayed for the grace of martyrdom. Let us recall for a moment these
heroic saints who are honoured in this place and who have left us a
precious heritage. Six of them were Jesuit priests from France: Jean de
Brebeuf, Isaac Jogues, Gabriel Lalemant, Antoine Daniel, Charles
Garnier and Noel Chabanel. Fired with love for Christ and inspired by
Saint Ignatius of Loyola, Saint Francis Xavier and other great saints
of the Society of Jesus, these priests came to the New World to
proclaim the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the native peoples of thir land.
And they persevered to the end despite difficulties of every sort. Two
lay brothers were part of the missionary group: Rene' Goupil and Jean
de Ia Lande. With no less courage and fervour, they assisted the
priests in their labours, showed great compassion and care/or the
Indians, and, laying down their lives, won for themselves the martyr's
crown. And as these missionaires laid down their lives, they looked
forward to a day when the native people would enjoy full maturity and
exercise leadership in their Church. Saint John de Brebeuf, dreamed of
a Church fully Catholic and fully Huron as well. A young woman of
Algonquin and Mohawk ancestry also deserves special recognition today:
Blessed Kateri Tekakwitha, Who has not heard of her outstanding witness
of purity and holiness of life? It was my personal joy, only four years
ago, to beatify this woman of great courage and faith, who is known by
many as the "Lily of the Mohawks". To those who came to Rome for her,
[18]beatification, I said: "Blessed Kateri stands before us as a symbol
of the heritage that is yours as North American Indians" (June 24,
1980).

5. As we are gathered in prayer today at the Martyrs' Shrine, we
remember the many efforts of the Church, beginning three and a half
centuries ago, to bring the Gospel of Chrirt into the lives of the
native peoples of North America. The Martyrs honoured here are only a
small representation of the many men and women who took part in this
great missionary effort. We wish to pay tribute as well to all those
who joyfully embraced the Christian faith, like Blessed Kateri, and who
remained faithful despite many trials and difficulties. Of great
importance to the Church of Huronia is Joseph Chiwatenwa, who together
with his wife Aonnetta, his brother Joseph and other family members
lived and witnessed to their faith in an heroic manner. Their fidelity
is yet another testimony to the truth attested to by the Apostle Paul:
"Nothing can ever separate us from the love of Christ". A statue now
commemorates the life and mission of Joseph Chiwatenwa. Particularly
striking is the testimony of Saint Charles Gamier on the inscription:
"It was in this Christian that we had our hope after God". These men
and women not only professed the faith and embraced Christ's love, but
they in turn became evangelizers and provide even today eloquent models
for lay ministry. We also recall how the worthy traditions of the
Indian tribes were strengthened and enriched by the Gospel message.
These new Christians knew by instinct that the Gospel, far from
destroying their authentic values and customs, had the power to purify
and uplift the cultural heritage which they had received. During her
long history, the Church herself has been constantly enriched by the
new traditions which are added to her life and legacy. And today we are
grateful for the part that the native peoples play, not only in the
multicultural fabric of Canadian society, but in the life of the
Catholic Church. Christ himself is incarnate in the life of the
Catholic Church. And through her action, the Church desires to assist
all people "to bring forward from their own living tradition original
expressions of Christian life, celebration and thought" (Catechesi
Tradendae, 53). Thus the one faith is expressed in different ways.
There can be no question of adulterating the word of God or of emptying
the Cross of its power, but rather of Christ animating the very center
of all culture. Thus, not only is Christianity relevant to the Indian
peoples, but Christ, in the members of his Body, is himself Indian. And
the revival of Indian culture will be a revival of those true values
which they have inherited and safeguarded, and which are purified and
ennobled by the Revelation of Jesus Christ. Through his Gospel Christ
confirms the native peoples in their belief in God, their awareness of
his presence, their ability to discover him in creation, their
dependence on him, their desire to worship him, their sense of
gratitude for the land, their responsible stewardship of the earth,
their reverence for all his great works, their respect for their
elders. The world needs to see these values - and so many more that
they possess - pursued in the life of the community and made incarnate
in a whole people. Finally, it is in the Eucharistic Sacrifice that
Christ, joined with his members, offers up to his Father all that makes
up their lives and cultures. In his Sacrifice he consolidates all his
people in the unity of his Church and calls us all to reconciliation
and peace. Like the Good Samaritan we are called to bind up the wounds
of our neighbours in need. Together with Saint Paul we must affirm: "It
was God who reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the
work of handing on this reconciliation" (2 Cor 5:18). This is truly the
hour for Canadians to heal all the divisions that have developed over
the centuries between the original peoples and the newcomers to this
continent. This challenge touches all individuals and groups, all
Churches and ecclesial Communities throughout Canada. As we go forward,
let us commend ourselves to the intercession of the North American
Martyrs, to Blessed Kateri Tekakwitha, Saint Joseph, in the words of
Saint Paul: "Now is the favourable time; this is the day of salvation"
(2 Cor 6:2).

6. Dear brothers and sisters in Christ, this Martyrs' Shrine of Huronia
bears witness to the rich heritage that has been handed on to the whole
Church. At the same time, it is a place of pilgrimage and prayer, a
monument to God's blessings in the past an inspiration as we look to
the future. Let us then praise God for his providential care and for
all we have inherited Patron of Canada, and all the Saints, together
with Mary the Queen of Saints. And in union with the whole Church - in
the richness of her diversity and in the power of her unity - let us
all proclaim by the witness of our own lives that "neither death nor
life. . . nor any created thing can ever come between us and the love
of God made visible in Christ Jesus our Lord" (Romans 8 38-39).

- [19]Pope [20]John Paul II, [21]15 September [22]1985

