____________________

[8]Sister Faustina: God's Gift to Our Time - Homily at the solemn Mass
celebrated for the canonization of Sister Mary Faustina Kowalska, by Pope
John Paul II, 30 April 2000

1. "Confitemini Domino quoniam bonus, quoniam in saeculum misericordia
eius"; "Give thanks to the Lord for he is good; his steadfast love
endures for ever" (Psalm 118:1).

So the Church sings on the Octave of
Easter, as if receiving from Christ's lips these words of the Psalm;
from the lips of the risen Christ, who bears the great message of
divine mercy and entrusts its ministry to the Apostles in the Upper
Room: "Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I send
you.... Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they
are forgiven; if you retain the sins of any, they are retained" (John
20:21-23).

Before speaking these words, Jesus shows his hands and his side. He
points, that is, to the wounds of the Passion, especially the wound in
his heart, the source from which flows the great wave of mercy poured
out on humanity. From that heart Sister Faustina Kowalska, the blessed
whom from now on we will call a saint, will see two rays of light
shining from that heart and illuminating the world: "The two rays",
Jesus himself explained to her one day, "represent blood and water"
(Diary, Libreria Editrice Vaticana, p. 132).

"My daughter, say that I am love and mercy personified"

2. Blood and water! We immediately think of the testimony given by the
Evangelist John, who, when a solider on Calvary pierced Christ's side
with his spear, sees blood and water flowing from it (cf. John 19:34).
Moreover, if the blood recalls the sacrifice of the Cross and the gift
of the Eucharist, the water, in Johannine symbolism, represents not
only Baptism but also the gift of the Holy Spirit (cf. John 3:5; 4:14;
7:37-39).

Divine Mercy reaches human beings through the heart of Christ
crucified: "My daughter, say that I am love and mercy personified",
Jesus will ask Sister Faustina (Diary, p. 374). Christ pours out this
mercy on humanity though the sending of the Spirit who, in the Trinity,
is the Person-Love. And is not mercy love's "second name" (cf. Dives in
misericordia, n. 7), understood in its deepest and most tender aspect,
in its ability to take upon itself the burden of any need and,
especially, in its immense capacity for forgiveness?

Today my joy is truly great in presenting the life and witness of
Sister Faustina Kowalska to the whole Church as a gift of God for our
time. By divine Providence, the life of this humble daughter of Poland
was completely linked with the history of the 20th century, the century
we have just left behind. In fact, it was between the First and Second
World Wars that Christ entrusted his message of mercy to her. Those who
remember, who were witnesses and participants in the events of those
years and the horrible sufferings they caused for millions of people,
know well how necessary was the message of mercy.

Jesus told Sister Faustina: "Humanity will not find peace until it
turns trustfully to divine mercy" (Diary, p. 132). Through the work of
the Polish religious, this message has become linked for ever to the
20th century, the last of the second millennium and the bridge to the
third. It is not a new message but can be considered a gift of special
enlightenment that helps us to relive the Gospel of Easter more
intensely, to offer it as a ray of light to the men and women of our
time.

3. What will the years ahead bring us? What will man's future on earth
be like? We are not given to know. However, it is certain that in
addition to new progress there will unfortunately be no lack of painful
experiences. But the light of divine mercy, which the Lord in a way
wished to return to the world through Sister Faustina's charism, will
illumine the way for the men and women of the third millennium.

However, as the Apostles once did, today too humanity must welcome into
the upper room of history the risen Christ, who shows the wounds of his
Crucifixion and repeats: Peace be with you! Humanity must let itself be
touched and pervaded by the Spirit given to it by the risen Christ. It
is the Spirit who heals the wounds of the heart, pulls down the
barriers that separate us from God and divide us from one another, and
at the same time, restores the joy of the Father's love and of
fraternal unity.

Love of God and love of neighbour are inseparable

4. It is important then that we accept the whole message that comes to
us from the word of God on this Second Sunday of Easter, which from now
on throughout the Church will be called "Divine Mercy Sunday". In the
various readings, the liturgy seems to indicate the path of mercy
which, while re-establishing the relationship of each person with God,
also creates new relations of fraternal solidarity among human beings.
Christ has taught us that "man not only receives and experiences the
mercy of God, but is also called "to practise mercy' towards others:
"Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy' (Mt 5:7)"
(Dives et misericordia, n. 14). He also showed us the many paths of
mercy, which not only forgives sins but reaches out to all human needs.
Jesus bent over every kind of human poverty, material and spiritual.

His message of mercy continues to reach us through his hands held out
to suffering man. This is how Sister Faustina saw him and proclaimed
him to people on all the continents when, hidden in her convent at
£agiewniki in Kraków, she made her life a hymn to mercy: Misericordias
Domini in aeternum cantabo.

5. Sister Faustina's canonization has a particular eloquence: by this
act I intend today to pass this message on to the new millennium. I
pass it on to all people, so that they will learn to know ever better
the true face of God and the true face of their brethren.

In fact, love of God and love of one's brothers and sisters are
inseparable, as the First Letter of John has reminded us: "By this we
know that we love the children of God, when we love God and obey his
commandments" (5:2). Here the Apostle reminds us of the truth of love,
showing us its measure and criterion in the observance of the
commandments.

It is not easy to love with a deep love, which lies in the authentic
gift of self. This love can only be learned by penetrating the mystery
of God's love. Looking at him, being one with his fatherly heart, we
are able to look with new eyes at our brothers and sisters, with an
attitude of unselfishness and solidarity, of generosity and
forgiveness. All this is mercy!

To the extent that humanity penetrates the mystery of this merciful
gaze, it will seem possible to fulfil the ideal we heard in today's
first reading: "The community of believers were of one heart and one
mind. None of them ever claimed anything as his own; rather everything
was held in common" (Acts 4: 32). Here mercy gave form to human
relations and community life; it constituted the basis for the sharing
of goods. This led to the spiritual and corporal "works of mercy". Here
mercy became a concrete way of being "neighbour" to one's neediest
brothers and sisters.

Trusting abandonment to Jesus dispels the thickest clouds

6. Sister Faustina Kowalska wrote in her Diary: "I feel tremendous pain
when I see the sufferings of my neighbours. All my neighbours'
sufferings reverberate in my own heart; I carry their anguish in my
heart in such a way that it even physically destroys me. I would like
all their sorrows to fall upon me, in order to relieve my neighbour"
(Diary, p. 365). This is the degree of compassion to which love leads,
when it takes the love of God as its measure!

It is this love which must inspire humanity today, if it is to face the
crisis of the meaning of life, the challenges of the most diverse needs
and, especially, the duty to defend the dignity of every human person.
Thus the message of divine mercy is also implicitly a message about the
value of every human being. Each person is precious in God's eyes;
Christ gave his life for each one; to everyone the Father gives his
Spirit and offers intimacy.

7. This consoling message is addressed above all to those who,
afflicted by a particularly harsh trial or crushed by the weight of the
sins they committed, have lost all confidence in life and are tempted
to give in to despair. To them the gentle face of Christ is offered;
those rays from his heart touch them and shine upon them, warm them,
show them the way and fill them with hope. How many souls have been
consoled by the prayer "Jesus, I trust in you", which Providence
intimated through Sister Faustina! This simple act of abandonment to
Jesus dispels the thickest clouds and lets a ray of light penetrate
every life. Jezu, ufam tobie.

8. Misericordias Domini in aeternum cantabo (Ps 88 [89]: 2). Let us
too, the pilgrim Church, join our voice to the voice of Mary most holy,
"Mother of Mercy", to the voice of this new saint who sings of mercy
with all God's friends in the heavenly Jerusalem.

And you, Faustina, a gift of God to our time, a gift from the land of
Poland to the whole Church, obtain for us an awareness of the depth of
divine mercy; help us to have a living experience of it and to bear
witness to it among our brothers and sisters. May your message of light
and hope spread throughout the world, spurring sinners to conversion,
calming rivalries and hatred and opening individuals and nations to the
practice of brotherhood. Today, fixing our gaze with you on the face of
the risen Christ, let us make our own your prayer of trusting
abandonment and say with firm hope: Christ Jesus, I trust in you! Jezu,
ufam tobie!
  __________________________________________________________________

Divine Mercy Expresses the Jubilee Spirit

1. At the close of this celebration, in which our Easter joy is
combined with that of Sister Faustina Kowalska's canonization, I
affectionately greet and thank all of you who have come from various
parts of the world. I ardently hope that each of you can experience
what Our Lady one day assured Saint Faustina: "I am not only the Queen
of Heaven, but also the Mother of Mercy and your Mother" (Diary, 141).

2. The message of Divine Mercy and the image of the merciful Christ of
which Sister Faustina Kowalska speaks to us today are a vivid
expression of the spirit of the Great Jubilee which the whole Church is
celebrating with joy and fruitfulness. Many of you have come to honour
the new saint. May her intercession bring abundant gifts of repentance,
forgiveness and renewed spiritual vitality to the Church in your
countries. May the thought of God's loving kindness stir up in your
hearts new energies for works of faith and Christian solidarity.

I cordially greet the French-speaking pilgrims, especially those who
have taken part in the canonization of Sister Faustina. Following her
example, may you entrust yourselves totally to the Lord and praise him
in the power of his mercy! May the renewing strength of the risen
Christ fill your hearts!

At the same time my thoughts embrace all my compatriots and I entrust
them to the intercession of the saintly Sister Faustina. In the new
millennium may the message of the merciful love of God, who bends over
all human poverty, be an endless source of hope for everyone and a call
to show active love to one's brothers and sisters. I cordially bless
you all.

Today we also join the Primate, Archbishop of Gniezno, and all our
compatriots who have gathered in Gniezno for the solemnity of Saint
Adalbert.

"Gaude Mater Poloniae...". Rejoice, Mother of Poland; rejoice, Sisters
of Our Lady of Mercy, because our Sister Faustina has been raised to
the glory of the saints.

I cordially greet the pilgrims from Poland and all those devoted to the
Divine Mercy who have gathered at the shrine in Kraków-Lagiewniki. I am
happy that on this day - so special for our country - representatives
of the Government of the Republic of Poland are here with the Prime
Minister, as well as representatives of Solidarnosc.

Divine Providence has linked Sister Faustina's life with the cities of
Warsaw, Plock, Vilnius and Kraków. Today I recall the names of these
cities, of which the new saint is the patroness, entrusting to their
residents a particular concern for the Divine Mercy apostolate.

3. And now let us pray to the merciful Queen of Heaven.

