____________________

[9]Allorché fummo chiamati - To the Peoples Now at War and to Their Rulers,
by Pope Benedict XV, 28 July 1915

[10]photograph of Pope Benedict XV; c.1915, photographed unknown;
United States Library of Congress; swiped from Wikimedia Commons When
We, though all unworthy, were called to succeed on the Apostolic Throne
the meek Pius X, whose life of holiness and well-doing was cut short by
grief at the fratricidal struggle that had just burst forth in Europe,
We, too, on turning a fearful glance on the blood-stained battlefields,
felt the anguish of a father, who sees his homestead devastated and in
ruins before the fury of the hurricane. And thinking with unspeakable
regret of our young sons, who were being mown down by death in
thousands, We opened Our heart, enlarged by the charity of Christ, to
all the crushing sorrow of the mothers, and of the wives made widows
before their time, and to all the inconsolable laments of the little
ones, too early bereft of a father's care. Sharing in the anxious fears
of innumerable families, and fully conscious of the imperative duties
imposed upon Us by the sublime mission of peace and of love, entrusted
to Our care in days of so much sadness, We conceived at once the firm
purpose of consecrating all Our energy and all Our power to the
reconciling of the peoples at war : indeed, We made it a solemn promise
to Our Divine Saviour, Who willed to make all men brothers at the cost
of His Blood.

And Our first words, as the Chief Shepherd of souls, addressed to the
Nations and their Rulers, were words of peace and of love. But Our
advice, affectionate and insistent as that of a father and a friend,
remained unheard. Our grief was aggravated, but Our purpose was
unshaken ; We turned, therefore, in all confidence to the Almighty, Who
holds in His Hands the minds and hearts of subjects, as of Kings,
begging of Him the cessation of the unprecedented scourge. We wished to
associate all the faithful in Our fervent and humble prayer, and to
make it the more efficacious, We arranged that it should be accompanied
by works of christian penance. But to-day, on the anniversary of the
outbreak of the tremendous conflict, more intense is the desire of Our
heart for the speedy conclusion of the war, still louder; is Our
fatherly cry for peace. May this cry, prevailing over the dreadful
clash of arms, reach unto the peoples who are now at war, and unto
their Rulers, inclining both to milder and more serene views.

In the holy name of God, in the name of our heavenly Father and Lord,
by the Blessed Blood of Jesus, price of man's redemption, We conjure
You, whom Divine Providence has placed over the Nations at war, to put
an end at last to this horrible slaughter, which for a whole year has
dishonoured Europe. It is the blood of brothers that is being poured
out on land and sea. The most beautiful regions of Europe, this garden
of the world, are sown with corpses and with ruin: there, where but a
short time ago flourished the industry of manufactures and the fruitful
labour of the fields, now thunders fearfully the cannon, and in its
destructive fury it spares neither village nor city, but spreads
everywhere havoc and death. You bear before God and man the tremendous
responsibility of peace and war ; give ear to Our prayer, to the
fatherly voice of the Vicar of the Eternal and Supreme Judge, to Whom
you must render an account as well of your public undertakings, as of
your own individual deeds.

The abounding wealth, with which God the Creator has enriched the lands
that are subject to You, allow You to go on with the struggle; but at
what cost? Let the thousands of young lives quenched every day on the
fields of battle make answer : answer, the ruins of so many towns and
villages, of so many monuments raised by the piety and genius of your
ancestors. And the bitter tears shed in the secrecy of home, or at the
foot of altars where suppliants beseech, do not these also repeat that
the price of the long drawn-out struggle is great, too great?

Nor let it be said that the immense conflict cannot be settled without
the violence of war. Lay aside your mutual purpose of destruction;
remember that Nations do not die ; humbled and oppressed, they chafe
under the yoke imposed upon them, preparing a renewal of the combat,
and passing down from generation to generation a mournful heritage of
hatred and revenge.

Why not from this moment weigh with serene mind the rights and lawful
aspirations of the peoples? Why not initiate with a good will an
exchange of views, directly or indirectly, with the object of holding
in due account, within the limits of possibility, those rights and
aspirations, and thus succeed in putting an end to the monstrous
struggle, as has been done under other similar circumstances? Blessed
be he who will first raise the olive-branch, and hold out his right
hand to the enemy with an offer of reasonable terms of peace. The
equilibrium of the world, and the prosperity and assured tranquillity
of Nations rest upon mutual benevolence and respect for the rights and
the dignity of others, much more than upon hosts of armed men and the
ring of formidable fortresses.

This is the cry of peace which breaks forth from Our heart with added
vehemence on this mournful day; and We invite all, whosoever are the
friends of peace the world over, to give Us a helping hand in order to
hasten the termination of the war, which for a long year has changed
Europe into one vast battlefield. May the merciful Jesus, through the
intercession of His Sorrowful Mother, grant that at last, after so
horrible a storm, the dawn of peace may break, placid and radiant, an
image of His own Divine Countenance. May hymns of thanksgiving soon
rise to the Most High, the Giver of all good things, for the
accomplished reconciliation of the States; may the peoples, bound in
bonds of brotherly love, return to the peaceful rivalry of studies, of
arts, of industries, and, with the empire of right reestablished, may
they resolve from now henceforth to entrust the settlement of their
differences, not to the sword's edge, but to reasons of equity and
justice, pondered with due cairn and deliberation. This will be their
most splendid and glorious conquest!

In loving trust that the tree of peace may soon return to rejoice the
world with such desirable fruits, We impart the Apostolic Benediction
to all who make up the mystical flock confided to Us, and also for
those, who do not yet belong to the Church of Rome, We pray the Lord to
draw them close to Us in the bonds of perfect charity.

Given at Rome, from the Vatican, 28 July 1915.
[INS: MLA Citation :INS]
  * "Allorché fummo chiamati - To the Peoples Now at War and to Their
    Rulers, by Pope Benedict XV, 28 July 1915". CatholicSaints.Info. 23
    January 2015. Web. 5 October 2020. <>

