____________________

[8]Catechesis on the Holy Angels by Pope John Paul II, 9 July to 20 August
1986

[9]Pope Saint John Paul II Creator of all things, seen and unseen

1. We cannot conclude our catechesis on God, Creator of the world,
without devoting adequate attention to a precise item of divine
Revelation: the creation of purely spiritual beings which Sacred
Scripture calls "angels". This creation appears clearly in the Creeds,
especially in the Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed: "I believe in one
God, the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth, of all things
(that is, entia or beings) seen and unseen". We know that man enjoys a
unique position within the sphere of creation: by his body he belongs
to the visible world, while by his spiritual soul which vivifies the
body, he is as it were on the boundary between the visible and
invisible creation. To the latter, according to the Creed which the
Church professes in the light of Revelation, belong other beings,
purely spiritual, therefore not proper to the visible world even though
present and working therein. They constitute a world apart.

2. Today, as in times past, these spiritual beings are discussed with
greater or lesser wisdom. One must recognize that at times there is
great confusion, with the consequent risk of passing off as the
Church's faith on the angels what does not pertain to it, or, vice
versa, of neglecting some important aspect of the revealed truth. The
existence of spiritual beings, which Sacred Scripture usually calls
"angels", was denied already in Christ's time by the Sadducees (cf.
Acts 23:8). It is denied also by materialists and rationalists of every
age But, as a modern theologian acutely observes, "if one wishes to get
rid of the angels, one must radically revise Sacred Scripture itself,
and with it the whole history of salvation" (A. Winklhofer Die Welt der
Engel, Ettal 1961, p. 144 note 2; in Mysterium Salutis, II, 2, p. 726).
The whole of Tradition is unanimous on this point. The Church's Creed
is basically an echo of what Paul writes to the Colossians: "for in him
(Christ) all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and
invisible, whether thrones or dominations or principalities or
authorities - all things were created through him and for him" (Col
1:16). That is to say, Christ who, as the Son-Word eternal and
consubstantial with the Father, is the first-born of all creation (Col
1:15), is at the centre of the universe, as the reason and cornerstone
of all creation, as we have already seen in the previous catecheses,
and as we shall see later when we shall speak more directly of him.

3. The reference to the "primacy" of Christ helps us to understand that
the truth about the existence and activity of the angels (good and bad)
is not the central content of the word of God In revelation God speaks
first of all "to men... and moves among them, in order to invite and
receive them into his own company", as we read in the Constitution Dei
Verbum of the Second Vatican Council (DV, 2). Thus "the most intimate
truth ... both about God and the salvation of man" is the central
content of the revelation which "shines forth" more fully in the person
of Christ (cf. DV, 2). The truth about the angels is in a certain sense
"collateral", though inseparable from the central revelation, which is
the existence, the majesty and the glory of the Creator which shine
forth in all creation ("seen" and "unseen") and in God's salvific
action in the history of mankind. The angels are not therefore
creatures of the first order, in the reality of Revelation, though they
fully belong to it, so much so that sometimes we see them carrying out
fundamental tasks in the name of God himself.

4. All this that pertains to creation enters, according to Revelation,
into the mystery of Divine Providence `Vatican I, which we have quoted
several times, states it in an exemplarily concise manner: "All that
God created, he conserves and directs by his Providence reaching from
end to end mightily and governing all things well' (cf. Wis 8:1). `All
lies bare and exposed to his eyes' (cf. Heb 4:13), even what will take
place through the free initiative of creatures" (DS, 3003). Providence
then embraces also the world of pure spirits, which are intellectual
and free beings still more fully than men. In Sacred Scripture we find
important references to them. There is also the revelation of a
mysterious, though real, drama concerning these angelic creatures,
without anything escaping divine Wisdom, which strongly (fortiter) and
at the same time gently (suaviter) brings all to fulfilment in the
kingdom of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit.

We recognize above all that Providence, as the loving Wisdom of God,
was manifested precisely in the creation of purely spiritual beings, so
as to express better the likeness of God in them who are so superior to
all that is created in the visible world including man, who is also the
indelible image of God. God who is absolutely perfect Spirit, is
reflected especially in spiritual beings which by nature, that is by
reason of their spirituality, are nearer to him than material
creatures, and which constitute as it were the closest "circle" to the
Creator. Sacred Scripture offers abundant explicit evidence of this
maximum closeness to God of the angels, who are spoken of figuratively
as the "throne' of God, as his "legions", his "heavens". It has
inspired the poetry which present the angels to us as the "court of
God".

Creator of the angels who are free beings

1. Today we continue our catechesis on the angels whose existence,
willed by an act of God's eternal love, we profess in the words of the
Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed: "I believe in one God, the Father
Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth, of all that is, seen and
unseen".

In the perfection of their spiritual nature the angels are called from
the beginning, by virtue of their intelligence, to know the truth and
to love the good which they know in truth in a more full and perfect
way than is possible to man. This love is an act of a free will, and
therefore for the angels also freedom implies a possibility of choice
for or against the Good which they know, that is, God himself. It must
be repeated here what we already mentioned earlier in regard to man: by
creating free beings, God willed that there should be realized in the
world true love which is possible only on the basis of freedom. He
willed therefore that the creature, constituted in the image and
likeness of his Creator, should be able in the greatest degree possible
to render himself similar to God who "is love" (1 Jn 4:16). By creating
the pure spirits as free beings, God in his Providence could not but
foresee also the possibility of the angels' sin. But precisely because
Providence is eternal wisdom which loves, God would have been able to
draw from the history of this sin, incomparably more radical inasmuch
as it was the sin of a pure spirit, the definitive good of the whole
created cosmos.

2. In fact, as Revelation clearly states, the world of the pure spirits
appears divided into good angels and bad ones. This division is not the
work of God's creation, but is based on the freedom proper to the
spiritual nature of each one of them. It is the result of choice which
for purely spiritual beings possesses an incomparably more radical
character than that of man, and it is irreversible given the degree of
intuitiveness and penetration of the good where with their intelligence
is endowed. In this regard it must also be said that the pure spirits
were subjected to a test of a moral character. It was a decisive test
regarding first of all God himself, a God known in a more essential and
direct way than is possible to man, a God who granted to these

spiritual beings the gift of participating in his divine nature, before
doing so to man.

A radical and irreversible choice

3. In the case of the pure spirits, the decisive choice regarded first
of all God himself, the first and supreme Good, accepted or rejected in
a more essential and direct way, than could happen within the scope of
action of human' free will. The pure spirits have a knowledge of God
incomparably more perfect than that of man, because by the power of
their intellect, not conditioned nor limited by the mediation of sense
knowledge, they see to the depths the greatness of infinite Being, of
the first Truth, of the supreme Good. To this sublime capacity of
knowledge of the pure spirits God offered the mystery of his divinity,
making them thus partakers, through grace, of his infinite glory
Precisely as beings of a spiritual nature they had in their intellect
the capacity, the desire of this supernatural elevation to which God
had called them, to make of them, long before man, "partakers of the
divine nature' (cf. 2 Pt 1:4), partakers of the intimate life of him
who is Father, Son and Holy Spirit, of him who in the communion of the
three Divine Persons, "is Love" (1 Jn 4:16). God had admitted all the
pure spirits, before and to the eternal communion of love.

4. The choice made on the basis of the truth about God, known in a
higher way because of the clarity of their intellects, has divided also
the world of pure spirits into the good and the bad. The good chose God
as the supreme and definitive Good, known to the intellect enlightened
by Revelation. To have chosen God means that they turned to him with
all the interior force of their freedom, a force which is love. God
became the total and definitive scope of their spiritual existence. The
others instead turned their backs on God contrary to the truth of the
knowledge which indicated him as the total and definitive good. Their
choice ran counter to the revelation of the mystery of God, to his
grace which made them partakers of the Trinity and of the eternal
friendship with God in communion with him through love. On the basis of
their created freedom they made a radical and irreversible choice on a
parity with that of the good angels, but diametrically opposed. Instead
of accepting a God full of love they rejected him, inspired by a false
sense of, self-sufficiency, of aversion and even of hatred which is
changed into rebellion.

5. How are we to understand such opposition and rebellion against God
in beings endowed with such profound and enlightened intelligence? What
can be the motive for such a radical and irreversible choice against
God? Of a hatred so profound as to appear solely the fruit of folly?
The Fathers of the Church and theologians do not hesitate to speak of a
"blindness" produced by the overrating of the perfection of their own
being, driven to the point of ignoring God's supremacy, which requires
instead an act of docile and obedient subjection. All this summed up
concisely in the words: "I will not serve" Jer 2:20), which manifest
the radical and irreversible refusal to take part in the building up of
the kingdom of God in the created world. Satan, the rebellious spirit,
wishes to have his own kingdom, not that of God, and he rises up as the
first "adversary" of the Creator, the opponent of Providence, and
antagonist of God's loving wisdom. From Satan's rebellion and sin, and
likewise from that of man, we must conclude by accepting the wise
experience of Scripture which states: "In pride there is ruin" (Tob
4:13).

Creator of things unseen: the angels

1. In the previous catechesis we dwelt on the article of the Creed in
which we proclaim and confess God as creator not only of the whole
visible world, but also of the "things unseen", and we treated of the
question of the existence of the angels who were called upon to make a
decision for God or against God by a radical and irreversible act of
acceptance or rejection of his salvific will.

According to Sacred Scripture the angels, inasmuch as they are purely
spiritual creatures, are presented for our reflection as a special
realization of the "image of God", the most perfect Spirit, as Jesus
himself reminds the Samaritan woman in the words: "God is spirit" (Jn
4:24). From this point of view the angels are creatures closest to the
divine exemplar. The name given to them by Sacred Scripture indicates
that what counts most in Revelation is the truth concerning the tasks
of the angels in regard to man: angel (angelus) in fact means
"messenger" The Hebrew malak, used in the Old Testament, signifies more
precisely "delegate" or "ambassador". The angels, spiritual creatures,
have a function of mediation and of ministry in the relationships
between God and man. Under this aspect the Letter to the Hebrews says
that Christ has been given a "name", and therefore a ministry of
mediation, far superior to that of the angels (cf. Heb 1:4).

Care and solicitude

2. The Old Testament emphasizes especially the special participation of
the angels in the celebration of the glory which the creator receives
as a tribute of praise on the part of the created world. The Psalms are
in a special way the interpreters of this voice, when, for example,
they proclaim "Praise the Lord from the heavens, praise him in the
heights! Praise him all his angels ..." (Ps 148:1-2). Similarly in
Psalm 102 (103): "Bless the Lord, O you his angels, you mighty ones who
do his word, hearkening to the voice of his word!" (Ps 102 [103]:20).
This last verse of Psalm 102 indicates that the angels take part, in a
way proper to themselves, in God's government of creation, as "the
mighty ones who do his word" according to the plan established by
Divine Providence. To the angels in particular is entrusted a special
care and solicitude for people, whose requests and prayers they present
to God as, mentioned, for example, in the Book of Tobit (Cf. especially
Tob 3:17 and 12:12). Psalm 90 proclaims:" "For to his angels he has
given command about you... upon their hands they shall bear you up,
lest you dash your foot against a stone"(cf. Ps 90-[91]:11-12).
Following the Book of Daniel it can be said that the tasks of angels as
ambassadors of the living God extend not only to individual human
beings and to those who have special duties, but also to entire nations
(Dan 10:13-21).

3. The New Testament highlights the role of the angels in Christ's
Messianic mission, and first of all in the mystery of the incarnation
of the Son of God, as we observe in the account of the announcement of
the birth of John the Baptist (cf. Lk 1:11), of Christ himself (cf. Lk
1:26), in the explanation and orders given to Mary and Joseph (cf. Lk
1:30-37; Mt 1:20-21), in the indications given to the shepherds on the
night of the Lord's birth (Lk 2:9-15), in the protection of the newborn
child from the danger of persecution by Herod (cf. Mt 2:13).

Further on the Gospels speak of the presence of the angels during
Jesus' forty days of fast in the desert (cf. Mt 4:11) and during the
prayer in Gethsemani. After Christ's resurrection there will also be an
angel, appearing under the form of a young man, who will say to the
women who had hastened to the tomb and were surprised to find it empty.
"Do not be amazed; you seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He
has risen, he is not here ... go, tell his disciples ..." (Mt 16:5-7).
Two angels were seen also by Mary Magdalene who was privileged with a
personal apparition Of Jesus (Jn 20:12-17; cf. also Lk 24:4). The
angels appear to the Apostles after Christ's ascension, to say to them:
"Men of Galilee, why do you stand here looking up into heaven? This
Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way
as you saw him go into heaven" (Acts 1:10-11). They are the angels of
him who, as St. Peter writes, "has gone into heaven and is at the right
hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers subject to him" (1
Pet 3:22).

4. If we pass to the Second Coming of Christ in the Parousia, we find
that all the Synoptic Gospels note that "the Son of man ... will come
in the glory of the Father with the holy angels" (thus Mk 8:38; as also
Mt 16:27; and Mt 25:31 in the description of the Last Judgement; and Lk
9:26; cf. also St. Paul in 2 Thess 1:7). It can therefore be said that
the angels, as pure spirits, not only participate in the holiness of
God himself, in the manner proper to them, but in the key moments they
surround Christ and accompany him in the fulfilment of his salvific
mission in regard to mankind. In the same way also the whole of
Tradition and the ordinary Magisterium of the Church down the centuries
has attributed to the angels this particular character and this
function of Messianic ministry.

Angels Participate In History Of Salvation

In his general audience of August 6th, Pope John Paul II noted that the
modern mentality does not see the importance of angels. Yet in the
encounter with the world of angels, man comes to see his own being not
only as body but also as spirit.

In the recent catechese we have seen how the Church, illuminated by the
light that comes from Sacred Scripture, has professed throughout the
centuries the truth about the existence of the angels as purely
spiritual beings, with the Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed, and has
confirmed this in the Fourth Lateran Council (1215), whose formulation
was repeated by the First Vatican Council in the context of the
doctrine on creation:

"God at the beginning of time created for nothing both creatures
together, the spiritual and the corporeal, that is, the angelic and the
earthly, and thus He created human nature as having both, since it is
made up of spirit and body" (Constitution De Fide Catholica, DS 3002).

In other words, God created both realities from the very beginning -
the spiritual reality and the corporeal, the earthly world and the
angelic world. He created all this at one and the same time (simul)
with a view to the creation of man, constituted of spirit and matter
and set, according to the biblical narrative, in the framework of a
world already established according to His laws and already measured by
time (deinde).

Together with their existence, the faith of the Church recognizes
certain distinctive characteristics of the nature of the angels. Their
purely spiritual being implies first of all their nonmateriality and
their immortality. The angels have no "body" (even if, in particular
circumstances, they reveal themselves under visible forms because of
their mission for the good of men), and therefore they are not subject
to the laws of corruptibility which are common to all the material
world.

Jesus Himself, referring to the condition of the angels, will say that
in the future life, those who are risen "cannot die any more, because
they are equal to the angels" (Lk. 20-36).

As creatures of a spiritual nature, the angels are endowed with
intellect and free will, like man, but in a degree superior to him,
even if this is always finite because of the limit which is inherent in
every creature. The angels are therefore personal beings and, as such,
are also "in the image and likeness" of God.

Sacred Scripture refers to the angels also by using terms that are not
only personal (like the proper names of Raphael, Gabriel, Michael) but
also "collective" (like the titles: seraphim, cherubim, thrones,
powers, dominions, principalities), just as it distinguishes between
angels and archangels. While bearing in mind analogous and
representative character of the language of the sacred text, we can
deduce that these beings and persons, as it were grouped together in
society, are divided into orders and grades, corresponding to the
measure of their perfection and to the tasks entrusted to them. The
ancient authors and the liturgy itself speak also of the angelic choirs
(nine, according to Dionysius the Areopagite).

Theology, especially in the patristic and medieval periods, has not
rejected these representations, seeking to explain them in doctrinal
and mystical terms, without, however, attributing an absolute value to
them. St. Thomas preferred to deepen his researches into the
ontological condition, the epistemological activity and will into the
loftiness of these purely spiritual creatures, both because of their
dignity in the scale of beings and also because he could investigate
more deeply in them the capacities and the activities that are proper
to the spirit in the pure state, deducing no little light to illuminate
the basic problems that have always agitated and stimulated human
thought: knowledge, love, liberty, docility to God, how to reach His
Kingdom.

The theme which we have touched on may seem "far away" or "less vital"
to the mentality of modern man. But the Church believes that she
renders a great service to man when she proposes sincerely the totality
of the truth about God the Creator and also about the angels.

Man nurtures the conviction that it is he (and not the angels) who is
at the center of the divine Revelation in Christ, Man and God. It is
precisely the religious encounter with the world of the purely
spiritual being that becomes valuable as a revelation of his own being
not only as body but also as spirit, and of his belonging to a design
of salvation that is truly great and efficacious within a community of
personal beings who serve the providential design of God for man and
with man.

Let us note that Sacred Scripture and Tradition give the proper name of
angels to those pure spirits who chose God, His glory, and His Kingdom
in the fundamental test of their liberty, They are united to God by the
consummate love which flows from the beatific vision, face to face, of
the Most Holy Trinity.

Jesus Himself tells us this: "The angels in Heaven always see the face
of my father who is in Heaven!' (Mt. 18:10). "To see the face of the
Father always" in this way is the highest manifestation of the
adoration of God. One can say that this constitutes the "heavenly
liturgy," carried out in the name of all the universe; with which the
earthly liturgy of the Church is incessantly joined, especially in its
culminating moments.

Let it suffice here to record the act with which the Church, every day
and every hour, in all the world, before beginning the Eucharistic
Prayer in the center of the Mass, makes appeal "to the angels and
archangels" to sing the glory of the thrice-holy God, uniting herself
thus to those first adorers of God, in the worship and the loving
knowledge of the unspeakable mystery of His holiness.

According to Revelation, the angels who participate in the life of the
Trinity in the light of glory are also called to play their part in the
history of the salvation of man, in the moments established by divine
Providence "Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to serve,
for the sake of those who are to possess salvation?," asks the author
of the Letter to the Hebrews (1:14).

This is believed and taught by the Church, on the basis of Sacred
Scripture, from which we learn that the task of the good angels is the
protection of people and solicitude for their salvation.

We find these experiences in various passages of Sacred Scripture, like
for example, Ps. 90 which has already been quoted several times: "He
will give His angels charge over you, to keep you in all your ways. On
their hands they will bear you up, lest you dash your foot against a
stone" (Ps. 90:11-12). Jesus Himself, speaking of children and warning
against giving them scandal, refers to "their angels" (Mt. 18:10).
Besides this, He attributes to the angels the function of witnesses in
the last divine judgement about the fate of those who have acknowledged
or denied Christ: "Whoever acknowledges me before men, the Son of Man
likewise will acknowledge him before the angels of God, but whoever
denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God" (Lk.
12:8-9; cf. Rev. 3:5).

These words are significant because, if the angels take part in the
judgement of God, then they are interested in the life of man. This
interest and participation seem to be accentuated in the eschatological
discourse, in which Jesus has the angels appear in the Parousia, that
is, in the definitive coming of Christ at the end of history ( cf. Mt.
24.31; 25:31-41).

Among the books of the New Testament, it is especially the Acts of the
Apostles that show us some facts that bear witness to the solicitude of
the angels for man and for his salvation.

Thus the angel of God liberates the Apostles from the prison (cf Acts
5:18-20 and first of all Peter, when he was threatened with death at
the hands of Herod (cf. Acts 12:5-10). Or he guides the activity of
Peter with regard to the centurion Cornelius, the first pagan to be
converted (Acts 10:3-8, 11:1-12), and analogously the activity of the
deacon Philip along the road from Jerusalem to Gaza (Acts 8:26-29).

From these few facts which we have cited as examples, we understand how
the Church could come to the conviction that God has entrusted to the
angels a ministry in favor of people Therefore the Church confesses her
faith in the guardian angels, venerating them in the liturgy with an
appropriate feast and recommending recourse to their protection by
frequent prayer, as in the invocation "Angel of God." This prayer seems
to draw on the treasure of the beautiful words of St. Basil: "Every one
of the faithful has beside him an angel as tutor and pastor, to lead
him to life"` (cf. St. Basil, Adv. Eunonium, III, 1; cf. also St.
Thomas, Summa Theol. I, q.11, a.3).

Ministering Spirits

Finally, it is appropriate to note that the Church honors the figures
of three angels with a liturgical cult; these are called by name in
Sacred Scripture.

The first is Michael the Archangel (cf. Dan. 10:13-20; Rev. 12:7; Jude
9). His name is a synthesis that expresses the essential attitude of
the good spirits. "Mica-EL" in fact means: "Who is like God?" In this
name, therefore, we find expressed the salvific choice thanks to which
the angels "see the face of the Father" who is in Heaven.

The second is Gabriel: a figure bound especially to the mystery of the
Incarnation of the Son of God (cf. Lk 1:19-26). His name means: "my
power is God" or "power of God," as if to say that the culmination of
creation, the Incarnation is the supreme sign of the omnipotent Father.

Finally, the third archangel is called Raphael. "Rafa-EL" means: "God
heals." He is made known to us by the story of Tobias in the Old
Testament (cf. Tob. 12:15-20), etc.). which is so significant for what
it says about entrusting to the angels the little children of God, who
are always in need of custody, care, and protection.

If we reflect well, we see that each one of these figures, Mica-EL,
Gabri-EL, and Rafa-EL reflects in a particular way the truth contained
in the question posed by the author of the Letter to the Hebrews: "Are
they not all ministering spirits sent forth to serve, for the sake of
those who are to possess salvation?" (Heb. 1-14).

The fall of the rebellious angels

1. Continuing the theme of the previous catecheses, which were
dedicated to the article of the faith that concerns the angels, God's
creatures, we shall begin today to explore the mystery of the freedom
which some of them have turned against God and his plan of salvation
for mankind.

As the evangelist Luke testifies, when the desciples returned to the
Master full of joy at the fruits they had gathered in their first
missionary attempt, Jesus utters a sentence that is highly evocative:
"I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning" (Lk 10:18). With these
words, the Lord affirms that the proclamation of the Kingdom of God is
always a victory over the devil, but at the same time he also reveals
that the building up of the Kingdom is continuously exposed to the
attacks of the spirit of evil. When we consider this, as we propose to
do with today's catechesis, it means that we prepare ourselves for the
condition of struggle which characterizes the life of the Church in
this final time of the history of salvation (as the Book of Revelation
asserts: cf. 12:7). Besides this, it will permit us to clarify the true
faith of the Church against those who pervert it by exaggerating the
importance of the devil, or by denying or minimizing his malevolent
power.

The preceding catecheses on the angels have prepared us to understand
the truth which Sacred Scripture has revealed and which the Tradition
of the Church has handed on about Satan, that is, the fallen angel, the
wicked spirit, who is also called the devil or demon.

2. This "fall", which has the character of rejection of God with the
consequent state of "damnation", consists in the free choice of those
created spirits who have radically and irrevocably rejected God and his
kingdom usurping his sovereign rights and attempting to subvert the
economy of salvation and the very order of the entire creation. We find
a reflection of this attitude in the words addressed by the tempter to
our first parents: "You will become like God" or "like gods" (cf. Gen
3:5). Thus the evil spirit tries to transplant into man the attitude of
rivalry, insubordination and opposition to God, which has, as it were,
become the motivation of all his existence.

3. In the Old Testament, the narrative of the fail of man as related in
the Book of Genesis, contains a reference to an attitude of antagonism
which Satan wishes to communicate to man in order to lead him to sin
(Gen 3:5). In the Book of Job too, we read that Satan seeks to generate
rebellion in the person who is suffering (cf. Job 1:11; 2:5-7). In the
Book of Wisdom (cf. Wis 2:24), Satan is presented as the artisan of
death, which has entered man's history along with sin.

4. In the Fourth Lateran Council (1215), the Church teaches that the
devil (or Satan) and the other demons "were created good by God but
have become evil by their own will". In fact, we read in the Letter of
St. Jude: " . . . the angels who did not keep their dignity, but left
their own dwelling, are kept by the Lord in eternal chains in the
darkness, for the judgement of the great day" (Jude 6). Similarly, in
the second Letter of St. Peter, we hear of "angels who have sinned" and
whom God "did not spare, but... cast in the gloomy abysses of hell,
reserving them for the judgement" (2 Pet 2:4). It is clear that if God
"does not forgive" the sin of the angels, this is because they remain
in their sin, because they are eternally "in the chains" of the choice
that they made at the beginning, rejecting God, against the truth of
the supreme and definitive Good that is God himself. It is in this
sense that St. John writes that "the devil has been a sinner from the
beginning..." (Jn 3:8). And he has been a murderer "from the
beginning", and "has not persevered in the truth, because there is no
truth in him" (Jn 8:44).

Satan: cosmic liar and murderer

5. These texts help us to understand the nature and the dimension of
the sin of Satan, which consists in the denial of the truth about God,
as he is known by the light of the intellect and revelation as infinite
Good, subsistent Love and Holiness. The sin was all the greater, in
that the spiritual perfection and the epistemological acuteness of the
angelic intellect, with his freedom and closeness to God, were greater.
When, by an act of his own free will, he rejected the truth that he
knew about God, Satan became the cosmic "liar and the father of lies"
(Jn 8:44). For this reason, he lives in radical and irreversible denial
of God, and seeks to impose on creation - on the other beings created
in the image of God, and in particular on people - his own tragic "lie
about the good" that is God. In the Book of Genesis, we find a precise
description of this lie and falsification of the truth about God, which
Satan (under the form of a serpent) tries to transmit to the first
representatives of the human race: God is jealous of his own
prerogatives and therefore wants to impose limitations on man (cf. Gen
3:5), Satan invites the man to free himself from the impositions of
this yoke, by making himself "like God".

6. In this condition of existential falsehood, Satan - according to St.
John - also becomes a "murderer", that is one who destroys the
supernatural life which God had made to dwell from the beginning in him
and in the creatures made "in the likeness of God": the other pure
spirits and men; Satan wishes to destroy life lived in accordance with
the truth, life in the fullness of good, the supernatural life of grace
and love. The author of the Book of Wisdom writes: ". . .death has
entered the world through the envy of the devil, and those who belong
to him experience it" (Wis 2:24). And Jesus Christ warns in the Gospel:
"... fear rather him who has the power to destroy both soul and body in
Gehenna" (Mt 10:28).

7. As the result of the sin of our first parents, this fallen angel has
acquired dominion over man to a certain extent. This is the doctrine
that has been constantly professed and proclaimed by the Church, and
which the Council of Trent confirmed in its treatise on original sin
(cf. DS 1511): it finds a dramatic expression in the liturgy of
baptism, when the catechumen is asked to renounce the devil and all his
empty promises.

In Sacred Scripture we find various indications of this influence on
man and on the dispositions of his spirit (and of his body). In the
Bible, Satan is called "the prince of the world" (cf Jn 12:31; 14:30;
16:11), and even "the god of this world" (2 Cor 4:4). We find many
other names that describe his nefarious relationship with man:
"Beelzebul" or "Belial", "unclean spirit": "tempter", "evil one" and
even "Antichrist" (1 Jn 4:3). He is compared to a "lion" (1 Pet 5:8),
to a "dragon" (in Revelation) and to a "serpent" (Gen 3). Very
frequently, he is designated by the name "devil": from the Greek
diaballein (hence diabolos), which means: to "cause destruction, to
divide, to calumniate, to deceive". In truth, all this takes place from
the beginning through the working of the evil spirit who is presented
by Sacred Scripture as a person, while it is declared that he is not
alone: "there are many of us" as the devils cry out to Jesus in the
region of the Gerasenes (Mk 5:9); and Jesus, speaking of the future
judgment, speaks of "the devil and his angels" (cf. Mt 25:41).

8. According to Sacred Scripture, and especially the New Testament, the
dominion and the influence of Satan and of the other evil spirits
embraces all the world. We may think of Christ's parable about the
field (the world), about the good seed and the bad seed that the devil
sows in the midst of the wheat, seeking to snatch away from hearts the
good that has been "sown"in them (cf. Mt 13:38-39). We may think of the
numerous exhortations to vigilance (cf. Mt 26:41; 1 Pet 5:8), to prayer
and fasting (cf. Mt 17:21). We may think of the strong statement made
by the Lord: "This kind of demon cannot be cast out by any other means
than prayer" (Mk 9:29). The action of Satan consists primarily in
tempting men to evil, by influencing their imaginations and higher
faculties, to turn them away from the law of God. Satan even tempts
Jesus (cf. Lk 4:3-13), in the extreme attempt to thwart what is
demanded by the economy of salvation, as this has been pre-ordained by
God.

It is possible that in certain cases the evil spirit goes so far as to
exercise his influence not only on material things, but even on man's
body so that one can speak of "diabolical possession" (cf. Mk 5:2-9).
It is not always easy to discern the preternatural factor operative in
these cases, and the Church does not lightly support the tendency to
attribute many things to the direct action of the devil; but in
principle it cannot be denied that Satan can go to this extreme
manifestation of his superiority, in his will to harm and lead to evil.

9. To conclude, we must add that the impressive words of the Apostle
John, "The whole world lies under the power of the evil one" (1 Jn
5:19), allude also to the presence of Satan in the history of humanity,
a presence which becomes all the more acute when man and society depart
from God. The influence of the evil spirit can conceal itself in a more
profound and effective way: it is in his "interests" to make himself
unknown. Satan has the skill in the world to induce people to deny his
existence in the name of rationalism and of every other system of
thought which seeks all possible means to avoid recognizing his
activity. This, however, does not signify the elimination of man's free
will and responsibility, and even less the frustration of the saving
action of Christ. It is, rather, a case of conflict between the dark
powers of evil and the powers of redemption. The words that Jesus
addressed to Peter at the beginning of the Passion are eloquent in this
context: "... Simon, behold, Satan has sought to sift you like wheat:
but I have prayed for you, that your faith may not fail" (Lk 22:31).

This helps us understand how Jesus, in the prayer that he taught us,
the "Our Father", that is, the prayer of the Kingdom of God, terminates
almost brusquely, unlike so many other prayers of his era, by reminding
us of our condition as people exposed to the snares of evil and of the
evil one. The Christian, appealing to the Father with the Spirit of
Jesus and invoking his Kingdom, cries with the power of faith. let us
not succumb to temptation, free us from evil, from the evil one. 0
Lord, let us not fall into the infidelity to which we are seduced by
the one who has been unfaithful from the beginning.

Christ's victory conquers evil

The Holy Father concluded his catechesis on God as the Creator of "the
things that are unseen" by speaking of the victory of Christ over the
spirit of evil.

1. Our catechese on God, the Creator of the things "that are unseen",
have brought fresh light and strength to our faith concerning the truth
about the evil one, or Satan; he is certainly not willed by God, who is
supreme Love and Holiness, and whose wise and strong Providence knows
how to guide our existence to victory over the prince of darkness. The
Church's faith, in fact, teaches us that the power of Satan is not
infinite. He is only a creature - powerful, in that he is pure spirit,
but nevertheless always a creature, with the limits proper to
creatures, subordinated to the will and dominion of God. If Satan is at
work in the world because of his hatred of God and of his Kingdom, this
is permitted by Divine Providence which directs the history of man and
of the world with power and goodness (fortiter et suaviter). It is
certainly true that Satan's action causes much damage, both of a
spiritual kind and also indirectly of a material kind, to individuals
and to society, but he is not able ultimately to neutralize the
definitive end towards which man and all creation tend. the Good. He
cannot block the construction of the Kingdom of God, in which at the
end there will be the full realization of the righteousness and the
love of the Father for the creatures who are eternally "predestined" in
Jesus Christ, his Son and Word. Indeed, we can say with St. Paul that
the work of the evil one cooperates for the good (cf. Rom 8:28) and
that it helps to build up the glory of the "chosen" ones (cf. 2 Tim
2:10).

Total salvation

2. Thus, the whole history of humanity can be considered as serving
total salvation which means the victory of Christ over the "prince of
this world" (Jn 12:31; 14:30; 16:11). "You shall bow down only before
the Lord your God, you shall adore him alone" (Lk 4:8), says Christ
eternally to Satan. At a dramatic moment of his ministry, when he was
openly accused of casting out the demons because of his alliance with
Beelzebul, the chief of the demons, Jesus replied with these words that
are at once severe and comforting. "Every kingdom that is divided falls
into ruins, and no city or family that is divided can stand upright.
Now if Satan drives out Satan, then he is divided in himself. How then
can his kingdom stand upright?... And if it is by the power of the
Spirit of God that I cast out the demons, then it is certain that the
Kingdom of God has come among you" (Mt 12:26-26, 28). "When a strong
man, well armed, guards his palace, all his goods are secure. But if
one stronger than he comes and overpowers him, he takes away the armour
in which he trusted, and divides his spoils" (Lk 11:21-22). The words
which Christ speaks about the tempter find their historical fulfilment
in the cross and resurrection of the Redeemer. As we read in the Letter
to the Hebrews, Christ became a sharer in human nature even to the
cross "in order to reduce to powerlessness, by means of death, the one
who has the power over death, that is, the devil... and thus to free
those who... were held in slavery" (Heb 2:14-15). This is the great
certainty of the Christian faith: "the prince of this world has been
judged" (Jn 16:11); "the Son of God has appeared, in order to destroy
the works of the devil" (1 Jn 3:8), as St. John bears witness. It is
therefore the crucified and risen Christ who has revealed himself as
that "stronger one" who has overpowered "the strong man", the devil,
and has cast him down from his throne

The Church shares in Christ's victory over the devil, for Christ has
given to his disciples the power to cast out demons (cf. Mt 10:1 and
parallels; Mk 16:17). The Church uses this victorious power through
faith in Christ and prayer (cf. Mk 9:29; Mt 17:19ff.), which in
particular cases can take the form of exorcism.

3. It is to this historical phase of the victory of Christ that the
announcement and the beginning of the final victory, the Parousia,
belongs: this is the second and definitive coming of Christ at the
close of history, and it is towards this that the life of the Christian
is orientated. Even if it is true that earthly history continues to
unfold under the influence of "that spirit who now is at work in
rebellious men", as St. Paul says (Eph 2:2), believers know that they
have been called to struggle for the definitive triumph of the Good.
"for our battle is not against creatures made of blood and of flesh,
but against the Principalities and Powers, against those who hold
dominion over this world of darkness, against the spirits of evil that
dwell in the heavenly places" (Eph 6:12).

Definitive victory

4. As the end of the struggle gradually draws nearer, it becomes in a
certain sense ever more violent, as Revelation, the last book of the
New Testament, shows in a special emphasis (cf. Rev 12:7-9). But it is
precisely this book that emphasizes the certainty that is given to us
by all of divine Revelation, that the struggle will finish with the
definitive victory of the good. In this victory, which is contained in
anticipation in the paschal mystery of Christ, there will be the
definitive fulfilment of the first announcement in the Book of Genesis,
which is significantly called the Proto-Evangelium, when God admonishes
the serpent: "I will put enmity between you and the woman" (Gen 3:15).
In this definitive phase, God will complete the mystery of his fatherly
Providence and "will set free from the power of darkness" those whom he
has eternally "predestined in Christ" and will "bring them over into
the kingdom of his beloved Son" (cf. Col 1:13-14). Then the Son will
subject even the whole universe to the Father, so that "God may be all
in all" (1 Cor 15:28).

5. Here we finish the catecheses on God as the Creator of "the things
that are visible and invisible", which are united, in our structuring
of the catecheses, with the truth about Divine Providence It is obvious
to the eyes of the believer that the mystery of the beginning of the
world and of history is joined indissolubly to the mystery of the end,
in which the finality of all that has been created reaches fulfilment.
The creed, which unites so many truths in such an organic manner, is
truly the harmonious cathedral of the faith.

In a progressive and organic way, we have been able to admire, struck
dumb with wonder, the great mystery of the intelligence and love of
God, in his action of creation, directed to the cosmos, to the human
person, and to the world of pure spirits. We have considered the
Trinitarian origin of this action and its wise orientation towards the
life of man who is truly the "image of God", called in his turn to
rediscover fully his own dignity in the contemplation of the glory of
God. We have been enlightened about one of the greatest problems that
perturb man and characterize his search for truth: the problem of
suffering and of evil. At the root, there is no mistaken or wicked
decision by God, rather his choice - and in a certain manner the risk
he has undertaken - of creating us free, in order to have us as
friends. Evil too has been born of liberty. But God does not give up,
and he predestines us with his transcendent wisdom to be his children
in Christ, directing all with strength and sweetness, so that the good
may not be overcome by evil.

We must now let ourselves be guided by Divine Revelation in our
exploration of the other mysteries of our salvation. We have now
received a truth which must be profoundly important for every
Christian: that there are pure spirits, creatures of God, initially all
good and then, through a choice of sin, irreducibly separated into
angels of light and angels of darkness. And while the existence of the
wicked angels requires of us that we be watchful so as not to yield to
their empty promises, we are certain that the victorious power of
Christ the Redeemer enfolds our lives, so that we ourselves may
overcome these spirits. In this, we are powerfully helped by the good
angels, messengers of God's love, to whom, taught by the tradition of
the Church, we address our prayer: "Angel of God, who are my guardian,
enlighten, guard, govern and guide me, who have been entrusted to you
by the heavenly goodness. Amen".

