[1]Index
[2]Facebook [3]Twitter [4]Google+ [5]Mail [6]Feed RSS
[7]Back  [8]Top [9]Print
[10][file-pdf.png]
__________________________________________________________________

[11]Francis [12]Apostolic Constitutions
[ [13]DE  - [14]EN  - [15]ES  - [16]FR  - [17]IT  - [18]LA  - [19]PL
- [20]PT ]

FRANCIS

APOSTOLIC CONSTITUTION
VERITATIS GAUDIUM

ON ECCLESIASTICAL UNIVERSITIES AND FACULTIES


FOREWORD


1.The joy of truth (Veritatis Gaudium) expresses the restlessness of
the human heart until it encounters and dwells within God's Light, and
shares that Light with all people.[21][1] For truth is not an abstract
idea, but is Jesus himself, the Word of God in whom is the Life that is
the Light of man (cf. Jn 1:4), the Son of God who is also the Son of
Man. He alone, "in revealing the mystery of the Father and of his love,
fully reveals humanity to itself and brings to light its very high
calling".[22][2]

When we encounter the Living One (cf. Rev 1:18) and the firstborn among
many brothers (cf. Rom 8:29), our hearts experience, even now, amid the
vicissitudes of history, the unfading light and joy born of our union
with God and our unity with our brothers and sisters in the common home
of creation. One day we will experience that endless joy in full
communion with God. In Jesus' prayer to the Father - "that they may all
be one; even as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also
may be in us" (Jn 17:21) - we find the secret of the joy that Jesus
wishes to share in its fullness (cf. Jn 15:11). It is the joy that
comes from the Father through the gift of the Holy Spirit, who is the
Spirit of truth and of love, freedom, justice and unity.

This is the joy that the Church is impelled by Jesus to bear witness to
and to proclaim in her mission, unceasingly and with ever renewed
vigour. The People of God makes its pilgrim way along the paths of
history, accompanying in solidarity the men and women of all peoples
and cultures, in order to shed the light of the Gospel upon humanity's
journey towards the new civilization of love. Closely linked to the
Church's evangelizing mission, which flows from her very identity as
completely committed to promoting the authentic and integral growth of
the human family towards its definitive fullness in God, is the vast
multidisciplinary system of ecclesiastical studies. This system has
developed over the centuries from the wisdom of the People of God,
under the guidance of the Holy Spirit and in dialogue with, and
discernment of, the signs of the times and diverse cultural
expressions.

It is not surprising then that the Second Vatican Council, in its
decisive and prophetic effort to renew the Church's life for a more
effective mission in this moment of history, in its Decree Optatam
Totius called for a faithful and creative review of ecclesiastical
studies (cf. Nos. 13-22). That review, after careful study and prudent
testing, led to the Apostolic Constitution Sapientia Christiana,
promulgated by Saint John Paul II on 15 April 1979. The Constitution
further encouraged and refined the Church's efforts to support
"Ecclesiastical Faculties and Universities, which is to say those
concerned particularly with Christian revelation and questions
connected therewith and which are therefore more closely connected with
her mission of evangelization", as well as with other disciplines
which, "although lacking a special link with Christian revelation, can
still help considerably in the work of evangelizing".[23][3]

Almost forty years later, in fidelity to the spirit and directives of
Vatican II and for its own timely application, the Apostolic
Constitution urgently needs to be brought up to date. While remaining
fully valid in its prophetic vision and its clarity of expression, the
Constitution ought to include the norms and dispositions issued since
its promulgation, and to take into account developments in the area of
academic studies in these past decades. There is also a need to
acknowledge the changed social-cultural context worldwide and to
implement initiatives on the international level to which the Holy See
has adhered.

This, then, is a good occasion to promote with thoughtful and prophetic
determination the renewal of ecclesiastical studies at every level, as
part of the new phase of the Church's mission, marked by witness to the
joy born of encountering Jesus and proclaiming his Gospel, that I set
before the whole People of God as a programme in Evangelii Gaudium.

2.The Apostolic Constitution Sapientia Christiana represented in every
respect the mature fruit of the great work of reforming ecclesiastical
studies initiated by the Second Vatican Council. In particular, it
consolidated the progress made in this crucial area of the Church's
mission under the wise and prudent guidance of Blessed Paul VI, while
at the same time heralding the contribution, in continuity with the
past, which would be made by the magisterium of Saint John Paul II.

As I have had occasion to note, "one of the main contributions of the
Second Vatican Council was precisely seeking a way to overcome this
divorce between theology and pastoral care, between faith and life. I
dare say that the Council has revolutionized to some extent the status
of theology - the believer's way of doing and thinking".[24][4] It is
precisely in this light that Optatum Totius strongly proposes that
ecclesiastical studies "be more suitably aligned and... work
harmoniously towards opening more and more the minds of the students to
the mystery of Christ. For it is this mystery which affects the whole
history of the human race, [and] continually influences the
Church".[25][5] In order to achieve this, the conciliar Decree urges
joining meditation with the study of sacred Scripture, "the soul of all
theology",[26][6] together with assiduous and conscious participation
in the sacred Liturgy, the "primary and indispensable source of the
truly Christian spirit",[27][7] and the systematic study of the living
Tradition of the Church in dialogue with all people of our time,
listening attentively to their concerns, their sufferings and their
needs.[28][8] Consequently, Optatam Totius stresses, "pastoral
concern... ought to permeate thoroughly the entire training of the
students",[29][9] so that they become accustomed to "transcending the
limits of their own diocese, nation, or rite, and to helping the needs
of the whole Church, [and] prepared in spirit to preach the Gospel
everywhere".[30][10]

Pope Paul VI's Evangelii Nuntiandi and Populorum Progressio, and John
Paul II's Redemptoris Hominis, issued only a month before the
promulgation of the Apostolic Constitution, are milestones along the
way which led from these directives of Vatican II to Sapientia
Christiana. The prophetic inspiration of Pope Paul's Apostolic
Exhortation on evangelization in the modern world is forcefully echoed
in the Foreword of Sapientia Christiana. There we read that "the
Church's mission of spreading the Gospel not only demands that the Good
News be preached ever more widely and to ever greater numbers of men
and women, but that the very power of the Gospel should permeate
thought patterns, standards of judgment, and norms of behaviour. In a
word, it is necessary that the whole of human culture be steeped in the
Gospel".[31][11] John Paul II, for his part, especially in the
Encyclical Fides et Ratio, reaffirmed and developed, with regard to the
dialogue between philosophy and theology, the conviction underlying
Vatican II's teaching that "the human being can come to a unified and
organic vision of knowledge. This is one of the tasks which Christian
thought will have to take up through the next millennium of the
Christian era".[32][12]

Populorum Progressio likewise played a decisive role in the reordering
of ecclesiastical studies in the light of Vatican II. The experience of
the various local Churches has shown that it, together with Evangelii
Nuntiandi, offered significant encouragement and concrete direction for
the inculturation of the Gospel and the evangelization of culture in
various regions of the world and in response to present-day challenges.
This social Encyclical of Paul VI, in fact, incisively states that the
development of peoples, essential for attaining justice and peace
worldwide, "must be well rounded; it must foster the development of
each man and of the whole man".[33][13] It also speaks of the need for
"wise men in search of a new humanism, one which will enable... [human
persons to] find themselves".[34][14] Populorum Progressio thus
interprets with prophetic vision the social question as an
anthropological question, one affecting the fate of the entire human
family.

This is the distinct interpretative key that would inspire the Church's
subsequent social teaching, from Laborem Exercens to Sollicitudo Rei
Socialis, to John Paul II's Centesimus Annus, to Benedict XVI's Caritas
in Veritate and to Laudato Si'. Renewing the invitation to a new way of
thinking proposed by Populorum Progressio, Pope Benedict XVI spoke of
the urgent need "to experience and to steer the globalization of
humanity in relational terms, in terms of communion and the sharing of
goods".[35][15] He emphasized that God wants to associate humanity to
that ineffable mystery of communion that is the Blessed Trinity, of
which the Church is a sign and instrument in Jesus Christ.[36][16] For
this actually to take place, he invites us "to broaden the scope of
reason" thus enabling it to understand and guide the powerful new
forces troubling the human family, "animating them within the
perspective of that `civilization of love' whose seed God has planted
in every people, in every culture".[37][17] This in turn will "foster
the interaction of the different levels of human knowledge",
theological and philosophical, social and scientific.[38][18]

3. This rich legacy of analysis and direction has been tested and
enriched, as it were, "on the ground" thanks to the persevering
commitment to a social and cultural meditation on the Gospel undertaken
by the People of God in different continental areas and in dialogue
with diverse cultures. The time has now come for it to be consolidated
and to impart to ecclesiastical studies that wise and courageous
renewal demanded by the missionary transformation of a Church that
"goes forth".

The primary need today is for the whole People of God to be ready to
embark upon a new stage of "Spirit-filled" evangelization.[39][19] This
calls for "a resolute process of discernment, purification and
reform".[40][20] In this process, a fitting renewal of the system of
ecclesiastical studies plays a strategic role. These studies, in fact,
are called to offer opportunities and processes for the suitable
formation of priests, consecrated men and women, and committed lay
people. At the same time, they are called to be a sort of providential
cultural laboratory in which the Church carries out the performative
interpretation of the reality brought about by the Christ event and
nourished by the gifts of wisdom and knowledge by which the Holy Spirit
enriches the People of God in manifold ways - from the sensus fidei
fidelium to the magisterium of the bishops, and from the charism of the
prophets to that of the doctors and theologians.

This is essential for a Church that "goes forth"! All the more so
because today we are not only living in a time of changes but are
experiencing a true epochal shift[41][21], marked by a wide-ranging
"anthropological"[42][22] and "environmental crisis".[43][23] Indeed,
we daily see "signs that things are now reaching a breaking point, due
to the rapid pace of change and degradation; these are evident in
large-scale natural disasters as well as social and even financial
crises".[44][24] In a word, this calls for "changing the models of
global development" and "redefining our notion of progress".[45][25]
Yet "the problem is that we still lack the culture necessary to
confront this crisis. We lack leadership capable of striking out on new
paths".[46][26]

This vast and pressing task requires, on the cultural level of academic
training and scientific study, a broad and generous effort at a radical
paradigm shift, or rather - dare I say - at "a bold cultural
revolution".[47][27] In this effort, the worldwide network of
ecclesiastical universities and faculties is called to offer the
decisive contribution of leaven, salt and light of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ and the living Tradition of the Church, which is ever open to
new situations and ideas.

Today it is becoming increasingly evident that "there is need of a true
evangelical hermeneutic for better understanding life, the world and
humanity, not of a synthesis but of a spiritual atmosphere of research
and certainty based on the truths of reason and of faith. Philosophy
and theology permit one to acquire the convictions that structure and
strengthen the intelligence and illuminate the will... but this is
fruitful only if it is done with an open mind and on one's knees. The
theologian who is satisfied with his complete and conclusive thought is
mediocre. The good theologian and philosopher has an open, that is, an
incomplete, thought, always open to the maius of God and of the truth,
always in development, according to the law that Saint Vincent of
Lerins described in these words: annis consolidetur, dilatetur tempore,
sublimetur aetate (Commonitorium primum, 23: PL 50, 668)".[48][28]

4. Against this vast new horizon now opening before us, what must be
the fundamental criteria for a renewal and revival of the contribution
of ecclesiastical studies to a Church of missionary outreach? Here we
can identify at least four criteria that emerge from the Second Vatican
Council's teaching and the Church's experience in these past decades of
having received that teaching in attentive listening to the Holy Spirit
and to the deepest needs and most pressing questions of the human
family.

a) First, the most urgent and enduring criterion is that of
contemplation and the presentation of a spiritual, intellectual and
existential introduction to the heart of the kerygma, namely the ever
fresh and attractive good news of the Gospel of Jesus Christ,[49][29]
which continues to take flesh in the life of the Church and of
humanity.^ [50]^[30] This is the mystery of salvation, of which the
Church, in Christ, is a sign and instrument in the midst of all
people.[51][31] The Church is "a mystery rooted in the Trinity, yet she
exists concretely in history as a people of pilgrims and evangelizers,
transcending any institutional expression, however necessary... [and
her] ultimate foundation is in the free and gracious initiative of
God".[52][32]

This joyful and life-giving contemplation of the face of God, revealed
in Jesus Christ as a Father rich in mercy (cf. Eph 2:4),[53][33]
enables us to live in a liberating and responsible way the experience
the Church as a "mystique" of living together.[54][34] This provides
the leaven of that universal fraternity which is "capable of seeing the
sacred grandeur of our neighbour, of finding God in every human being,
of tolerating the nuisances of life in common by clinging to the love
of God, of opening the heart to divine love and seeking the happiness
of others just as their heavenly Father does".[55][35] It is also the
source of the imperative to allow our hearts and minds to heed the cry
of the earth's poor[56][36] and to give concrete expression to the
social dimension of evangelization,[57][37] which is an integral part
of the Church's mission. For "God, in Christ, redeems not only the
individual person but also the social relations existing between
men".[58][38] It is true that "we may not always be able to reflect
adequately the beauty of the Gospel, but there is one sign which we
should never lack: the option for those who are least, those whom
society discards".[59][39] This option must pervade the presentation
and study of Christian truth.

From this comes the particular feature, in the formation of a Christian
culture, of discovering in the whole of creation the Trinitarian
imprint that makes the cosmos in which we live a "network of relations"
in which "it is proper to every living being to tend towards other
things". This in turn fosters "a spirituality of that global solidarity
which flows from the mystery of the Trinity".[60][40]

b) A second guiding criterion, closely linked to and flowing from the
first, is that of wide-ranging dialogue, not as a mere tactical
approach, but as an intrinsic requirement for experiencing in community
the joy of the Truth and appreciating more fully its meaning and
practical implications. Today our proclamation of the Gospel and the
Church's doctrine are called to promote a culture of encounter,[61][41]
in generous and open cooperation with all the positive forces that
contribute to the growth of universal human consciousness. A culture,
we might say, of encounter between all the authentic and vital
cultures, thanks to a reciprocal exchange of the gifts of each in that
luminous space opened up by God's love for all his creatures.

As Pope Benedict XVI pointed out, "truth, in fact, is logos which
creates dia-logos, and hence communication and communion".[62][42] In
this light, Sapientia Christiana, echoing Gaudium et Spes, urges
dialogue with Christians of other Churches and Ecclesial Communities,
and with those of other religious or humanistic convictions,
maintaining "contact with scholars of other disciplines, whether these
are believers or not", in an effort to "evaluate and interpret the
latter's affirmations and judge them in the light of revealed
truth".[63][43]

This provides a positive and timely chance to review, from this
standpoint and in this spirit, the structure and method of the academic
curricula proposed by the system of ecclesiastical studies, in their
theological foundations, in their guiding principles and in their
various levels of disciplinary, pedagogical and didactical
organization. This can be accomplished in a demanding but highly
productive effort to rethink and update the aims and integration of the
different disciplines and the teaching imparted in ecclesiastical
studies within this specific framework and intentionality. Today, in
fact, "what is called for is an evangelization capable of shedding
light on these new ways of relating to God, to others and to the world
around us, and inspiring essential values. It must reach the places
where new narratives and paradigms are being formed."[64][44]

c) From this follows the third fundamental criterion that I would
propose: inter-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary approaches carried
out with wisdom and creativity in the light of Revelation. What
distinguishes the academic, formative and research approach of the
system of ecclesiastical studies, on the level of both content and
method, is the vital intellectual principle of the unity in difference
of knowledge and respect for its multiple, correlated and convergent
expressions.

This entails offering, through the various programmes proposed by
ecclesiastical studies, a variety of disciplines corresponding to the
multifaceted richness of reality disclosed by the event of Revelation,
yet harmoniously and dynamically converging in the unity of their
transcendent source and their historical and metahistorical
intentionality, which is eschatologically disclosed in Christ Jesus. In
him, writes Saint Paul, "are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and
knowledge (Col 2:3). This theological, anthropological, existential and
epistemic principle takes on particular significance and is called to
manifest all its effectiveness within the system of ecclesiastical
studies by ensuring cohesion together with flexibility, and organicity
together with dynamism. It must also show its effectiveness in relation
to the fragmented and often disintegrated panorama of contemporary
university studies and to the pluralism - uncertain, conflicting and
relativistic - of current beliefs and cultural options.

Today, as Benedict XVI noted in Caritas in Veritate, taking up the
cultural insights expressed by Paul VI in Populorum Progressio, "there
is a lack of wisdom and reflection, a lack of thinking capable of
formulating a guiding synthesis".[65][45] This is where the specific
mission entrusted to the programme of ecclesiastical studies comes into
play. The need for such a guiding synthesis not only makes clear the
intrinsic purpose of the programme of ecclesiastical studies, but also
demonstrates, especially today, its real cultural and humanizing
importance. Today's recovery of an interdisciplinary approach is
certainly positive and promising,[66][46] even in its "weak" form as a
simple multidisciplinary approach that favours a better understanding
from several points of view of an object of study. It is all the more
so in its "strong" form, as cross-disciplinary, situating and
stimulating all disciplines against the backdrop of the Light and Life
offered by the Wisdom streaming from God's Revelation.

It follows that someone trained in the framework of the institutions
promoted by the system of ecclesiastical studies - as Blessed John
Henry Newman wished for - ought to know "just where he and his science
stand; he has come to it, as it were, from a height; he has taken a
survey of all knowledge".[67][47] So too, in the nineteenth century,
Blessed Antonio Rosmini called for a decisive reform in the area of
Christian education, restoring the four pillars on which it firmly
rested in the first centuries of the Christian era: "communion in
learning, holy intercourse, habit of life, interchange of affection".
What is essential, he argued, is to restore the unity of content,
perspective and aim of the science being taught, on the basis of the
Word of God and its culmination in Christ Jesus, the Word of God made
flesh. Without this living centre, science has "neither root nor
coherence" and simply remains "as a mere matter of youthful memory".
Only in this way is it possible to overcome the "fatal separation of
theory and practice", for in the unity of science and holiness "we find
the true spirit of that doctrine which is destined to save the world".
For the teaching of that doctrine, in ancient times, "did not end with
the brief daily lesson; it was continued in the constant intercourse of
the disciple with his master".[68][48]

d) A fourth and final criterion concerns the urgent need for
"networking" between those institutions worldwide that cultivate and
promote ecclesiastical studies, in order to set up suitable channels of
cooperation also with academic institutions in the different countries
and with those inspired by different cultural and religious traditions.
At the same time, specialized centres of research need to be
established in order to study the epochal issues affecting humanity
today and to offer appropriate and realistic paths for their
resolution.

As I noted in Laudato Si', "beginning in the middle of the last century
and in spite of many difficulties, there has been a growing conviction
that our planet is a homeland and that humanity is one people living in
a common home".[69][49] Recognizing this interdependence "obliges us to
think of one world with a common plan.[70][50] The Church, in
particular, in a convinced and prophetic response to the summons to a
renewed presence and mission in history issued by Vatican II, is called
to realize that the very catholicity that makes her a leaven of unity
in diversity and communion in freedom both demands and favours "the
polarity between the particular and the universal, between the one and
the many, between the simple and the complex. To annihilate this
tension would be to go against the life of the Spirit".[71][51] What is
needed, then, is to practise a way of knowing and interpreting reality
in the light of the "mind of Christ" (cf. 1 Cor 2:16), wherein the
model for approaching and resolving problems "is not the sphere...
where every point is equidistant from the centre, and there are no
differences between them", but rather "the polyhedron, which reflects
the convergence of all its parts, each of which preserves its
distinctiveness".[72][52]

Indeed, "the history of the Church shows that Christianity does not
have simply one cultural expression, but rather, `remaining completely
true to itself, with unswerving fidelity to the proclamation of the
Gospel and the tradition of the Church, it will also reflect the
different faces of the cultures and peoples in which it is received and
takes root'.[73][53] In the diversity of peoples who experience the
gift of God, each in accordance with its own culture, the Church
expresses her genuine catholicity and shows forth `the beauty of her
varied face'.[74][54] In the Christian customs of an evangelized
people, the Holy Spirit adorns the Church, showing her new aspects of
revelation and giving her a new face".[75][55]

This way of seeing things clearly sets out a demanding task for
theology just as, in their own specific areas of competence, for the
other disciplines contemplated in ecclesiastical studies. With a fine
image, Benedict XVI stated that the Church's tradition "is not a
transmission of things or of words, a collection of dead things.
Tradition is the living river that links us to the origins, the living
river in which the origins are ever present".[76][56] "This river
irrigates various lands, feeds various geographical places, germinating
the best of that land, the best of that culture. In this way, the
Gospel continues to be incarnated in every corner of the world, in an
ever new way".[77][57] Theology must doubtless be rooted and grounded
in sacred Scripture and in the living tradition, but for this very
reason it must simultaneously accompany cultural and social processes,
and particularly difficult transitions. Indeed, "at this time theology
must address conflicts: not only those that we experience within the
Church but also those that concern the world as a whole".[78][58] This
involves "the willingness to face conflict head on, to resolve it and
to make it a link in the chain of a new process", thus acquiring "a way
of making history in a life setting where conflicts, tensions and
oppositions can achieve the diversified and life-giving unity. This is
not to opt for a kind of syncretism, or for the absorption of one into
the other, but rather for a resolution which takes place on a higher
plane and preserves what is valid and useful on both sides".[79][59]

5. The revival of ecclesiastical studies entails the pressing need to
give new impulse to the scientific research conducted in our
ecclesiastical universities and faculties. The Apostolic Constitution
Sapientia Christiana presented research as a "primary duty", in
constant "contact with reality... to communicate doctrine to [our]
contemporaries in various cultures".[80][60] Yet in today's
multicultural and multiethnic world, new social and cultural dynamics
impose a broadening of these aims. Indeed, for the Church to carry out
her saving mission, "it is not enough that evangelizers be concerned to
reach each person... the Gospel is also proclaimed to the cultures as a
whole".[81][61] Ecclesiastical studies cannot be limited to passing on
knowledge, professional competence and experience to the men and women
of our time who desire to grow as Christians, but must also take up the
urgent task of developing intellectual tools that can serve as
paradigms for action and thought, useful for preaching in a world
marked by ethical and religious pluralism. To do so calls not only for
profound theological knowledge, but also the ability to conceive,
design and achieve ways of presenting the Christian religion capable of
a profound engagement with different cultural systems. All this calls
for increased quality in scientific research and a gradual improvement
in the level of theological studies and related sciences. It is not
only a matter of extending the field of diagnosis and of adding to the
mass of available data for interpreting reality,[82][62] but of a
deeper study that seeks "to communicate more effectively the truth of
the Gospel in a specific context, without renouncing the truth, the
goodness and the light which it can bring wherever perfection is not
possible".[83][63]

It is to research conducted in ecclesiastical universities, faculties
and institutes that I primarily entrust the task of developing that
"creative apologetics" which I called for in Evangelii Gaudium, in
order to "encourage greater openness to the Gospel on the part of
all".[84][64]

Indispensable in this regard is the establishment of new and qualified
centres of research where - as I proposed in Laudato Si' - scholars
from different religious universities and from different scientific
fields can interact with responsible freedom and mutual transparency,
thus entering into "dialogue among themselves for the sake of
protecting nature, defending the poor, and building networks of respect
and fraternity".[85][65] In all countries, universities constitute the
main centres of scientific research for the advancement of knowledge
and of society; they play a decisive role in economic social and
cultural development, especially in a time like our own, marked as it
is by rapid, constant and far-reaching changes in the fields of science
and technology. International agreements also take account of the vital
responsibility of universities for research policies and the need to
coordinate them by creating networks of specialized centres in order to
facilitate, not least, the mobility of researchers.

In this regard, plans are under way for outstanding interdisciplinary
centres and initiatives aimed at accompanying the development of
advanced technologies, the best use of human resources and programmes
of integration. Ecclesiastical studies, in the spirit of a Church that
"goes forth", are likewise called to develop specialized centers
capable of deeper dialogue with the different scientific fields.
Specifically, shared and converging research between specialists of
different disciplines represents a particular service to the people of
God, and especially to the Magisterium. It also supports the Church's
mission of proclaiming the good news of Christ to all, in dialogue with
the different sciences and in the service of a deeper understanding and
application of truth in the life of individuals and society.

Ecclesiastical studies will thus be poised to make their specific and
unique contribution of inspiration and guidance, and will be able to
articulate and express in a new, challenging and realistic way their
proper task. So it has always been and so shall it ever be! Theology
and Christian culture have lived up to their mission whenever they were
ready to take risks and remain faithful on the borderline. "The
questions of our people, their suffering, their battles, their dreams,
their trials, their worries possess an interpretational value that we
cannot ignore if we want to take the principle of the Incarnation
seriously. Their wondering helps us to wonder ourselves, their
questions question us. All this helps us to delve into the mystery of
the Word of God, the Word that requires and asks that we dialogue, that
we enter into communion".[86][66]

6. What is taking shape before us today is "a great cultural, spiritual
and educational challenge, and it will demand that we set out on the
long path of renewal".[87][67] This is also the case for ecclesiastical
faculties and universities.

May a joyful and unshaken faith in Jesus, crucified and risen, the
centre and Lord of history, guide, enlighten and sustain us in these
demanding and exciting times marked by commitment to a renewed and
far-sighted overall configuration of ecclesiastical studies. Christ's
resurrection, with the superabundant gift of the Holy Spirit,
"everywhere calls forth seeds of this new world; even if they are cut
back, they grow again, for the resurrection is already secretly woven
into the fabric of this history".[88][68]

May Mary Most Holy, who at the message of the angel conceived with
ineffable joy the Word of Truth, accompany our journey. May she obtain
from the Father of all good things the blessing of light and of love
that we await, with hope and childlike trust, from her Son and our
Lord, Jesus Christ, in the joy of the Holy Spirit!


PART ONE
GENERAL NORMS

Section I
Nature and Purpose of Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties


Article 1. To carry out the ministry of evangelization given to the
Church by Christ, the Church has the right and duty to erect and
promote Universities and Faculties which depend upon herself.[89][69]

Article 2. § 1. In this Constitution the terms Ecclesiastical
Universities and Faculties mean those institutions of higher education
which have been canonically erected or approved by the Apostolic See,
which foster and teach sacred doctrine and the sciences connected
therewith, and which have the right to confer academic degrees by the
authority of the Holy See.[90][70]

§ 2. They can be an Ecclesiastical University or Faculty sui iuris; or
an Ecclesiastical Faculty within a Catholic University,[91][71] or an
Ecclesiastical Faculty within some other kind of University.

Article 3. The purpose of Ecclesiastical Faculties are:

§ 1. through scientific research to cultivate and promote their own
disciplines, i.e. those directly or indirectly connected with Christian
revelation or which directly serve the mission of the Church, and
therefore especially to deepen knowledge of Christian revelation and of
matters connected with it, to enunciate systematically the truths
contained therein, to consider in the light of revelation the most
recent progress of the sciences, and to present them to the people of
the present day in a manner adapted to various cultures;

§ 2. to train the students to a level of high qualification in their
own disciplines, according to Catholic doctrine, to prepare them
properly to face their tasks, and to promote the continuing permanent
education of the ministers of the Church;

§ 3. to collaborate intensely, in accordance with their own nature and
in close communion with the Hierarchy, with the local and the universal
Church the whole work of evangelization.

Article 4. It is the duty of Bishops' Conferences to follow carefully
the life and progress of Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties,
because of their special ecclesial importance.

Article 5. The canonical erection or approval of Ecclesiastical
Universities and Faculties is reserved to the Congregation for Catholic
Education, which governs them according to law.[92][72]

Article 6. Only Universities and Faculties canonically erected or
approved by the Holy See and ordered according to the norms of this
present Constitution have the right to confer academic degrees which
have canonical value,[93][73] with the exception of the special right
of the Pontifical Biblical Commission.[94][74]

Article 7. The Statutes of each University or Faculty, which must be
drawn up in accordance with the present Constitution, require approval
by the Congregation for Catholic Education.[95][75]

Article 8. Ecclesiastical Faculties erected or approved by the Holy See
in non-Ecclesiastical universities, which confer both canonical and
civil academic degrees, must observe the prescriptions of the present
Constitution, while respecting the bilateral and multilateral
conventions signed by the Holy See with various nations or with the
universities themselves.

Article 9. § 1. Faculties which have not been canonically erected or
approved by the Holy See may not confer academic degrees having
canonical value.

§ 2. Academic degrees conferred by such Faculties, if they are to have
value for some canonical effects only, require the recognition of the
Congregation for Catholic Education.

§ 3. For this recognition to be given for individual degrees for a
special reason, the conditions laid down by the Congregation must be
fulfilled.

Article 10. For the correct carrying out of the present Constitution,
the Norms of Application issued by the Congregation for Catholic
Education must be observed.

Section II
The Academic Community and Its Government

Article 11. § 1. The University or Faculty is community of study,
research and formation, which operates, on an official level, in
pursuit of its primary aims, listed in article 3, in conformity with
the principles of the evangelizing mission of the Church.

§ 2. Within the academic community, all the people, either as
individuals or as members of councils, are, each according to his or
her own status, co-responsible for the common good and must strive to
work for the same community's goals.

§ 3. Therefore, their rights and duties within the academic community
must be accurately set down in the Statutes, to ensure that they are
properly exercised within correctly established limits.

Article 12. The Chancellor represents the Holy See to the University or
Faculty and equally the University or Faculty to the Holy See. He
promotes the continuation and progress of the University or Faculty and
he fosters its communion with the local and universal Church.

Article 13. § 1. The University or Faculty legally depends on the
Chancellor, unless the Holy See has established otherwise.

§ 2. Where conditions favour such a post, it is also possible to have a
Vice-Chancellor, whose authority is determined in the Statutes.

Article 14. If the Chancellor is someone other than the local Ordinary,
the statutory norms are to establish how the Ordinary and the
Chancellor carry out their respective offices in mutual accord.

Article 15. The academic authorities are personal and collegial.
Personal authorities are, in the first place, the Rector or President
and the Dean. The collegial authorities are the various directive
organisms or councils of both the University and Faculty.

Article 16. The Statutes of the University or Faculty must very
carefully set out the names and offices of the academic authorities,
determining the way they are designated and their term of office,
taking into account both the canonical nature of the individual
University or Faculty and the university practice in the local area.

Article 17. Those designed as academic authorities are to be people who
are truly knowledgeable about university life and, usually, who come
from among the teachers of some Faculty.

Article 18. The following office-holders are appointed, or at least
confirmed, by the Congregation for Catholic Education:

-       the Rector of an Ecclesiastical University;

-       the President of an Ecclesiastical Faculty sui iuris;

-       the Dean of an Ecclesiastical Faculty that forms part of a
Catholic University or another kind of University.

Article 19. § 1. The Statutes determine how the personal and the
collegial authorities are to collaborate with each other, so that,
carefully observing the principle of collegiality, especially in more
serious matters and above all in those of an academic nature, the
persons in authority will enjoy that exercise of power which really
corresponds to their office.

§ 2. This applies, in the first place, to the Rector, who has the duty
to govern the entire University and to promote, in suitable ways, its
unity, cooperation and progress.

Article 20. § 1. When Faculties are parts of an Ecclesiastical
University or a Catholic University, their governance must be suitably
coordinated through the Statutes with the governance of the entire
University in such a way that the good of the single Faculties is
assured at the same time that the good of the whole University is
promoted, and the cooperation of all the Faculties with each other is
favoured.

§ 2. The canonical exigencies of Ecclesiastical Faculties must be
safeguarded even when such Faculties are inserted into another kind of
University.

Article 21. When a Faculty is joined to a major seminary or college,
the Statutes, while always having due concern for cooperation in
everything pertaining to the students' good, must clearly and
effectively provide that the academic direction and administration of
the Faculty are correctly distinct from the governance and
administration of the major seminary or college.

Section III
Teachers

Article 22. In each Faculty there must be a number of teachers,
especially permanent ones, which corresponds to the importance and
development of the individual disciplines as well as to the proper care
and profit of the students.

Article 23. There must be various ranks of teachers, determined in the
Statutes, according to their measure of preparation, their insertion
into the Faculty, their permanence, and their responsibilities within
the Faculty, taking into account the university practice of the local
area.

Article 24. The Statutes are to define which authorities are
responsible for hiring, naming, and promoting teachers, especially when
it is a question of giving them a permanent position.

Article 25. § 1. To be legitimately hired as a permanent teacher in a
Faculty, a person must:

1) be distinguished by wealth of knowledge, witness of Christian and
ecclesial life, and a sense of responsibility;

2) have a suitable Doctorate or equivalent title or exceptional and
singular scientific accomplishment;

3) show documentary proof of suitability for doing scientific research,
especially by a published dissertation;

4) demonstrate teaching ability.

§ 2. These requirements for taking on permanent teachers must be
applied also, in proportionate measure, for hiring non-permanent ones.

§ 3. In hiring teachers, the scientific requirements in current force
in the university practice of the local area should be taken into
account.

Article 26. § 1. All teachers of every rank must be marked by an
upright life, integrity of doctrine, and devotion to duty, so that they
can effectively contribute to the proper goals of an Ecclesiastical
academic institution. Should any of these requirements subsequently
cease to be, the teachers must be removed from their post, observing
the established procedures.[96][76]

§ 2. Those who teach matters touching on faith and morals are to be
conscious of their duty to carry out their work in full communion with
the authentic Magisterium of the Church, above all, with that of the
Roman Pontiff.[97][77]

Article 27. § 1 Those who teach disciplines concerning faith or morals
must receive, after making their profession of faith,[98][78] a
canonical mission from the Chancellor or his delegate, for they do not
teach on their own authority but by virtue of the mission they have
received from the Church. The other teachers must receive permission to
teach from the Chancellor or his delegate.

§ 2. All teachers, before they are given a permanent post or before
they are promoted to the highest category of teacher, or else in both
cases, as the Statutes are to state, must receive a declaration of
nihil obstat from the Holy See.

Article 28. Promotion to the higher ranks of teachers is to take place
only after a suitable interval of time and with due reference to
teaching skill, to research accomplished, to the publication of
scientific works, to the spirit of cooperation in teaching and in
research, and to commitment to the Faculty.

Article 29. The teachers, in order to carry out their tasks
satisfactorily, must be free from other employment which cannot be
reconciled with their duty to do research and to instruct, according to
what the Statutes require for each rank of teacher.[99][79]

Article 30. The Statutes must state:

a) when and under which conditions a teaching post ends;

b) for what reasons and in which ways a teacher can be suspended,
removed, or even deprived of his post, so as to safeguard suitably the
rights of the teachers, of the Faculty or University, and, above all,
of the students and also of the ecclesial community.

Section IV
Students

Article 31. Ecclesiastical Faculties are open to all who can legally
give testimony to leading a moral life and to having completed the
previous studies appropriate to enrolling in the Faculty.

Article 32. § 1. To enrol in a Faculty in order to obtain an academic
degree, one must present that kind of study title which would be
necessary to permit enrolment in a civil university of one's own
country or of the country where the Faculty is located.

§ 2. The Faculty, in its own Statutes, should determine what, besides
what is contained in § 1 above, is needed for entrance into its course
of study, including ancient and modern language requirements.

§ 3. The Faculty should also determine in its Statutes procedures for
evaluating the ways to treat the cases of refugees, exiles and persons
in similar situations who lack the normal documentation required.

Article 33. Students must faithfully observe the laws of the Faculty
about the general programme and about discipline - in the first place
about the Plan of Studies, class attendance, and examinations - as well
as all that pertains to the life of the Faculty. For this reason, the
University and the individual Faculties should arrange ways for the
students to know the Statutes and Rule.

Article 34. The Statutes should define how the students, either
individually or collectively, take part in the academic community life
in those aspects in which they can contribute to the common good of the
Faculty or University.

Article 35. The Statutes should equally determine how the students can,
for serious reasons, be suspended from certain rights or be deprived of
them or even be expelled from the Faculty, in such a way that the
rights of the student, of the Faculty or University, and also of the
ecclesial community are appropriately protected.

Section V
Officials and Administrative and Service Personnel

Article 36. § 1. In governing and administering a University or
Faculty, the authorities are to be assisted by officials trained for
various tasks.

§ 2. The officials are, first of all, the Secretary, the Librarian, the
Financial Procurator, and others whom the institution considers
necessary. Their rights and duties must be established in the Statutes
or Rule.

Section VI
Plan of Studies

Article 37. § 1. In arranging the studies, the principles and norms
which for different matters are contained in ecclesiastical documents,
especially those of the Second Vatican Council, must be carefully
observed. At the same time account must be taken of sound advances
coming from scientific progress which can contribute to answering the
questions being currently asked.

§ 2. In the single Faculties let that scientific method be used which
corresponds to the needs of the individual sciences. Up-to-date
didactic and teaching methods should be applied in an appropriate way,
in order to bring about the personal involvement of the students and
their active participation in their studies.

Article 38. § 1. Following the norm of the Second Vatican Council,
according to the nature of each Faculty:

1) just freedom[100][80] should be acknowledged in research and
teaching so that true progress can be obtained in learning and
understanding divine truth.

2) At the same time let it be clear that:

a) true freedom in teaching is necessarily contained within the limits
of God's Word, as this is constantly taught by the Church's
Magisterium;

b) likewise, true freedom in research is necessarily based upon firm
adherence to God's Word and deference to the Church's Magisterium,
whose duty it is to interpret authentically the Word of God.

§ 2. Therefore, in such a weighty matter one must proceed with trust,
and without suspicion, but the same time with prudence and without
rashness, especially in teaching; moreover, one must carefully
harmonize the necessities of science with the pastoral needs of the
People of God.

Article 39. In each Faculty the curriculum of studies is to be suitably
organized in steps or cycles, adapted to the material. They are usually
as follows:

a) first, a general instruction is imparted, covering a coordinated
presentation of all the disciplines, along with an introduction into
scientific methodology;

b) next, one section of the disciplines is studied more profoundly, at
the same time that the students practise scientific research more
fully;

c) finally, there is progress toward scientific maturity, especially
through a piece of written work that truly makes a contribution to the
advance of the science.

Article 40. § 1. The disciplines which are absolutely necessary for the
Faculty to achieve its purposes should be determined. Those also should
be set out which in a different way are helpful to these purposes and,
therefore, how these are suitably distinguished one from another.

§ 2. In each Faculty the disciplines should be arranged in such a way
that they form an organic body, so as to serve the solid and coherent
formation of the students and to facilitate collaboration by the
teachers.

Article 41. Lectures, especially in the basic cycle, must be given, and
the students must attend them, according to the norms to be determined
in the Plan of Studies.

Article 42. Practical exercises and seminars, mainly in the
specialization cycle, must be assiduously carried on under the
direction of the teachers. These ought to be constantly complemented by
private study and frequent discussions with the teachers.

Article 43. The Plan of Studies of the Faculty is to define which
examinations or which equivalent tests the students are to take,
whether written or oral, at the end of the semester or year, and
especially of the cycle, so that their ability can be verified in
regard to continuing in the Faculty and in regard to receiving academic
degrees.

Article 44. Likewise the Statutes or Rule are to determine what value
is to given for studies taken elsewhere, especially in regard to being
dispensed from some disciplines or examinations or even in regard to
reducing the curriculum, always, however, respecting the prescriptions
of the Congregation for Catholic Education.


Section VII
Academic Degrees and Other Awards


Article 45. § 1. After each cycle of the curriculum of studies, the
suitable academic degree can be conferred, which must be established
for each Faculty, with attention given to the duration of the cycle and
to the disciplines taught in it.

§ 2. Therefore, according to the general and special norms of this
Constitution, all degrees conferred and the conditions under which they
are conferred are to be determined in the Statutes of the individual
Faculties.

Article 46. The academic degrees conferred by an Ecclesiastical Faculty
are: Baccalaureate, Licentiate, and Doctorate.

Article 47. Academic degrees can be given different names in the
Statutes of the individual Faculties, taking account of the university
practice in the local area, indicating, however, with clarity the
equivalence these have with the names of the academic degrees above and
maintaining uniformity among the Ecclesiastical Faculties of the same
area.

Article 48. Nobody can obtain an academic degree unless properly
enrolled in a Faculty, completing the course of studies prescribed by
the Plan of Studies, and successfully passing the examinations and
possibly other means of testing.

Article 49. § 1. In order to be admitted to the Doctorate, one must
first have obtained the Licentiate.

§ 2. A requisite for obtaining a Doctorate, furthermore, is a doctoral
dissertation that makes a real contribution to the progress of science,
written under the direction of a teacher, publicly defended and
collegially approved; the principal part, at least, must be published.

Article 50. § 1. The Doctorate is the academic degree which enables one
to teach in a Faculty and which is therefore required for this purpose,
the Licentiate is the academic degree which enables one to teach in a
major seminary or equivalent institution and which is therefore
required for this purpose.

§ 2. The academic degrees which are required for filling various
ecclesiastical posts are to be stated by the competent ecclesiastical
authority.

Article 51. An honorary Doctorate can be conferred for special
scientific or cultural merit in promoting the ecclesiastical sciences.

Article 52. As well as academic degrees, Faculties can also grant other
degrees, according to the variety of Faculties and the Plan of Studies
of the individual Faculties.


Section VIII
Didactic Facilities


Article 53. In order to achieve its proper purposes, especially in
regard to scientific research, each University or Faculty must have an
adequate library, in keeping with the needs of the teachers and
students. It must be correctly organized and equipped with an
appropriate catalogue.

Article 54. Through an annual allotment of money, the library must
continually acquire books, old and new, as well as the principal
reviews, so as to be able effectively to serve research, teaching of
the disciplines, instructional needs, and the practical exercises and
seminars.

Article 55. The library must be headed by a trained librarian, assisted
by a suitable council. The librarian participates opportunely in the
Council of the University or Faculty.

Article 56. § 1. The Faculty must also have information and technical
audio-visual equipment, etc., to assist its didactic and research work.

§ 2. In relationship to the special nature and purpose of a University
or Faculty, research institutions and scientific laboratories should
also be available, as well as other instruments needed for the
accomplishment of its ends.


Section IX
Financial Administration


Article 57. A University or Faculty must have enough money to achieve
its purposes properly. Its financial endowments and its property rights
are to be carefully described.

Article 58. The Statutes are to determine the duty of the Financial
Officer as well as the part the Rector or President and the University
or Faculty Council play in money matters, according to the norms of
good economics and so as to preserve healthy administration.

Article 59. The teaching and non-teaching personnel are to be paid a
suitable remuneration, taking account of the customs of the local area,
and also taking into consideration pensions and insurance protection.

Article 60. Likewise, the Statutes are to determinate the general norms
that will indicate the ways the students are to contribute to the
expenses of the University or Faculty, by paying academic fees.


Section X
Strategic Planning and Cooperation of Faculties


Article 61. § 1. Great care must be given to what is called strategic
planning, so as to provide for the preservation and progress of
Universities and Faculties, as well as their suitable distribution in
the various parts of the world.

§ 2. To accomplish this end, the Congregation for Catholic Education is
to be helped by advice from the Bishops' Conferences and from a
commission of experts.

Article 62. § 1. The erection or approval of a new University or
Faculty is decided upon by the Congregation for Catholic
Education[101][81] when all the requirements are fulfilled. In this the
Congregation listens to the local Ordinary or Eparch, the Bishops'
Conference, and experts especially from neighbouring Faculties.

§ 2. Four Ecclesiastical Faculties are needed to erect canonically an
Ecclesiastical University; three Ecclesiastical Faculties for an
Ecclesiastical Athenaeum.

§ 3. An Ecclesiastical University and an Ecclesiastical Faculty sui
iuris possess ipso iure public juridic personality.

§ 4. It pertains to the Congregation for Catholic Education to grant by
decree juridic personality to an Ecclesiastical Faculty that is part of
a civil University.

Article 63. § 1. Affiliation of some institution with a Faculty for the
purpose of being able to grant the Baccalaureate is approved by the
Congregation for Catholic Education, after the conditions established
by that same Congregation are fulfilled.

§ 2. It is highly desirable that theological study centres, whether
diocesan or religious, be affiliated to a Faculty of Theology.

Article 64. Aggregation to a Faculty and incorporation into a Faculty
by an institution for the purposes of also granting higher academic
degrees is decided upon by the Congregation for Catholic Education,
after the conditions established by that same Congregation are
fulfilled.

Article 65. The erection of a Higher Institute of Religious Sciences
requires it to be linked with a Faculty of Theology, according to the
particular norms published by the Congregation for Catholic Education.

Article 66. Cooperation between Faculties, whether of the same
University or of the same region or of a wider territorial area, is to
be diligently striven for.[102][82] In fact, such cooperation is of
great help in promoting the scientific research of the teachers and a
better formation of the students. It also fosters the advance of
interdisciplinary collaboration, which appears to be ever more
necessary, and it contributes to the development of complementarity
among the various Faculties. In general, it also helps to bring about
the diffusion of Christian wisdom throughout all culture.

Article 67. Whenever an Ecclesiastical University or Faculty no longer
fulfils the conditions that were necessary for its erection or
approval, it pertains to the Congregation for Catholic Education,
having previously adverted the Chancellor and the Rector or President,
according to the circumstances and after having heard the opinion of
the diocesan or eparchial Bishop and of the Bishops' Conference, to
take the decision to suspend its academic rights, to revoke its
approval as an Ecclesiastical University or Faculty, or to suppress the
institute.


PART TWO
SPECIAL NORMS


Article 68. Besides the norms common to all Ecclesiastical Faculties,
which are established in the first part of this Constitution, special
norms are given here-under for certain of those Faculties, because of
their particular nature and importance for the Church.


Section I
Faculty of Theology


Article 69. A Faculty of Theology has the aim of profoundly studying
and systematically explaining, according to the scientific method
proper to it, Catholic doctrine, derived with the greatest care from
divine revelation. It has the further aim of carefully seeking the
solution to human problems in the light of that same revelation.

Article 70. § 1. The study of Sacred Scripture is, as it were, the soul
of Theology, which rests upon the written Word of God together with
living Tradition, as its perpetual foundation.[103][83]

§ 2. The individual theological disciplines are to be taught in such a
way that, from their internal structure and from the proper object of
each as well as from their connection with other disciplines, such as
Canon Law and Philosophy as well as the anthropological sciences, the
basic unity of theological instruction is quite clear, and in such a
way that all the disciplines converge in a profound understanding of
the mystery of Christ, so that this can be announced with greater
effectiveness to the People of God and to all nations.[104][84]

Article 71. § 1. Revealed truth must be considered also in connection
with the scientific accomplishments of evolving time, so that it can be
seen "how faith and reason give harmonious witness to the unity of all
truth."[105][85] Also, its exposition is to be such that, without any
change of the truth, there is adaptation to the nature and character of
every culture, taking special account of the philosophy and the wisdom
of various peoples. However, all syncretism and every kind of false
particularism are to be excluded.[106][86]

§ 2. The positive values in the various cultures and philosophies are
to be sought out, carefully examined, and taken up. However, systems
and methods incompatible with Christian faith must not be accepted.

Article 72. § 1. Ecumenical questions are to be carefully treated,
according to the norms of competent Church authorities.[107][87]

§ 2. Also to be carefully considered are relationships with
non-Christian religions.

§ 3. Problems arising from atheism and other currents of contemporary
culture are to be scrupulously studied.

Article 73. In studying and teaching the Catholic doctrine, fidelity to
the Magisterium of the Church is always to be emphasized. In the
carrying out of teaching duties, especially in the basic cycle, those
things are, above all, to be imparted which belong to the received
patrimony of the Church. Hypothetical or personal opinions which come
from new research are to be modestly presented as such.

Article 74. The curriculum of studies of the Faculty of Theology
comprises:

a) the first cycle, fundamentals, which lasts for five years or ten
semesters, or else, when a previous two-year Philosophy course is an
entrance requirement, for three years or six semesters.

The first two years must be primarily dedicated to a solid
philosophical formation, which is necessary for undertaking correctly
the study of theology. The Baccalaureate obtained in an Ecclesiastical
Faculty of Philosophy substitutes for first-cycle philosophy courses in
theology Faculties. A Baccalaureate in Philosophy obtained in a
non-Ecclesiastical Faculty does not give grounds for dispensing a
student completely from the first-cycle philosophy courses in Theology
Faculties.

The theological disciplines must be taught in such a way that what is
presented is an organic exposition of the whole of Catholic doctrine,
together with an introduction to theological scientific methodology.

The cycle ends with the academic degree of Baccalaureate or some other
suitable degree as the Statutes of the Faculty determine.

b) the second cycle, specialization, which lasts for two years or four
semesters. In this cycle the particular disciplines are taught
corresponding to the nature of the diverse specializations being
undertaken. Also seminars and practical exercises are conducted for the
acquisition of the ability to do scientific research.

The cycle concludes with the academic degree of specialized Licentiate.

c) the third cycle, in which for a suitable period of time scientific
formation is brought to completion, especially through the writing of a
doctrinal dissertation.

The cycle concludes with the academic degree of Doctorate.

Article 75. § 1. To enrol in a Faculty of Theology, the student must
have done the previous studies called for in accordance with article 32
of this Constitution.

§ 2. Where the first cycle of the Faculty lasts for only three years,
the student must submit proof of having properly completed a two-year
course in philosophy at an Ecclesiastical Faculty of Philosophy or at
an approved institution.

Article 76. § 1. A Faculty of Theology has the special duty of taking
care of the scientific theological formation of those preparing for the
priesthood and those who are preparing to hold some particular
ecclesiastical office; therefore, it is necessary that there be a
suitable number of priest teachers.

§ 2. For this purpose, special courses suitable for seminarians should
be offered. It is also appropriate for the Faculty itself to offer the
"pastoral year" required for the priesthood, in addition to the
five-year basic cycle. At the end of this year, a special Diploma may
be conferred.


Section II
Faculty of Canon Law


Article 77. A Faculty of Canon Law, whether Latin or Oriental, has the
aim of cultivating and promoting the juridical disciplines in the light
of the law of the Gospel and of deeply instructing the students in
these, so as to form researchers, teachers, and others who will be
trained to hold special ecclesiastical posts.

Article 78. The curriculum of studies of a Faculty of Canon Law should
include:

a) the first cycle, lasting for four semesters or two years, for those
who have no previous training in philosophy or theology, including
those who already hold an academic degree in civil law; in this cycle
students should study the fundamental concepts of canon law and the
philosophical and theological disciplines required for an advanced
formation in canon law;

b) the second cycle, lasting for six semesters or three years, during
which the canon law in all its expressions - normative,
jurisprudential, doctrinal, praxis, and especially the Code of the
Latin Church or of the Oriental Churches - should be studied in depth,
by way of the complete study of its sources, both magisterial and
disciplinary, along with other disciplines having an affinity with it;

c) the third cycle, lasting for a suitable period of time, in which
students perfect the canon law training necessary for scholarly
research in view of preparing a doctoral dissertation.

Article 79. § 1. With regard to the studies prescribed for the first
cycle, the Faculty may make use of the studies done in another Faculty
and which it can acknowledge as responding to its needs.

§ 2. The second cycle concludes with the Licentiate and the third with
the Doctorate.

§ 3. The Plan of Studies of the Faculty is to define the special
requirements for the conferring of the academic degrees, observing the
prescriptions of the Congregation for Catholic Education.

Article 80. To enrol in a Faculty of Canon Law, the student must have
done the previous studies called for in accordance with article 32 of
this Constitution.


Section III
Faculty of Philosophy


Article 81. § 1. An Ecclesiastical Faculty of Philosophy has the aim of
investigating philosophical problems according to scientific
methodology, basing itself on a heritage of perennially valid
philosophy.[108][88] It has to search for solutions in the light of
natural reason and, furthermore, it has to demonstrate their
consistency with the Christian view of the world, of man, and of God,
placing in a proper light the relationship between philosophy and
theology.

§ 2. Then, the students are to be instructed so as to make them ready
to teach and to fill other suitable intellectual posts as well as to
prepare them to promote Christian culture and to undertake a fruitful
dialogue with the people of our time.

Article 82. The curriculum of studies in an Ecclesiastical Faculty of
Philosophy includes:

a) the first cycle, basics, in which for three years or six semesters
an organic exposition of the various parts of philosophy is imparted,
which includes treating the world, man, and God. It also includes the
history of philosophy, together with an introduction into the method of
scientific research;

b) the second cycle, the beginning of specialization, in which for two
years or four semesters through special disciplines and seminars a more
profound consideration is imparted in some sector of philosophy;

c) the third cycle, in which, for a period of at least three years,
philosophical maturity is promoted, especially by means of writing a
doctoral dissertation.

Article 83. The first cycle ends with the degree of Baccalaureate, the
second with the specialized Licentiate, and the third with the
Doctorate.

Article 84. To enrol in the first cycle of a Faculty of Philosophy, the
student must have done the previous studies called for in accordance
with article 32 of this Apostolic Constitution.

If a student, who has successfully completed the regular philosophy
courses in the first cycle of a Theology Faculty, wants to continue
philosophical studies in order to obtain the Baccalaureate in an
Ecclesiastical Faculty of Philosophy, due account must be taken of the
courses that the student has attended during the aforementioned
studies.


Section IV
Other Faculties


Article 85. Besides the Faculties of Theology, Canon Law, and
Philosophy, other Faculties have been or can be canonically erected,
according to the needs of the Church and with a view to attaining
certain goals, as for instance:

a) a more profound study of certain sciences which are of greater
importance to the theological, juridical, philosophical and historical
disciplines;

b) the promotion of other sciences, first of all the humanities, which
have a close connection with the theological disciplines or with the
work of evangelization;

c) the deeper cultivation of literature, so that it can provide a
special help both for a better understanding of Christian revelation
and for carrying on more efficaciously the work of evangelization;

d) finally, a more accurate preparation both of clerics and laity so
that they may worthily carry out some special duties of the apostolate.

Article 86. It belongs to the Congregation for Catholic Education to
set out, in accordance with circumstances, special norms for these
Faculties or Institutes, just as has been done in the above sections
for the Faculties of Theology, Canon Law, and Philosophy.

Article 87. The Faculties and Institutes for which special norms have
not yet been set out must also draw up their own Statutes. These must
conform to the General Norms established in the first part of this
Constitution, and they must take into account the special nature and
purpose proper to each of these Faculties or Institutes.


Final Norms


Article 88. This present Constitution will come into effect on the
first day of the 2018-2019 academic year or of the 2019 academic year,
according to the academic calendar in use in various places.

Article 89. § 1. Each University or Faculty must, before December 8,
2019, present its Statutes and Plan of Studies, revised according to
this Constitution, to the Congregation for Catholic Education.

§ 2. Any modifications to the Statutes or Plan of Studies require the
approval of the Congregation for Catholic Education.

Article 90. In each Faculty the studies must be arranged so that the
students can acquire academic degrees according to the norms of this
Constitution, preserving the students' previously acquired rights.

Article 91. The Statutes and the Plan of Studies of new Faculties are
to be approved ad experimentum so that, within the three-year period
after approval, they may be perfected with a view to being approved
definitively.

Article 92. Those Faculties which have a juridical connection with
civil authorities may, if necessary, be given a longer period of time
to revise their Statutes, with the permission of the Congregation for
Catholic Education.

Article 93. § 1. It is the task of the Congregation for Catholic
Education, when, with the passage of time, circumstances shall require
it, to propose changes to be introduced into this Constitution, so that
this same Constitution may be continuously adapted to the new needs of
Ecclesiastical Faculties.

§ 2. Only the Congregation for Catholic Education can dispense from
observing any article of this Constitution or Norms of Application, or
from the approved Statutes and Plan of Studies of each University or
Faculty.

Article 94. All laws and customs presently obtaining which are in
contradiction to this Constitution are abrogated, whether these are
universal or local, even if they are worthy of special or individual
mention. Likewise completely abrogated are all privileges hitherto
granted by the Holy See to any person, whether physical or moral, if
these are contrary to the prescriptions of this Constitution.

All that I have laid down in this Apostolic Constitution, I order be
observed in full, anything whatsoever to the contrary notwithstanding,
even if worthy of particular mention, and that it be published in the
official gazette Acta Apostolicae Sedis.


Given in Rome, at Saint Peter's, on 8 December, the Solemnity of the
Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary, in the year 2017, the
fifth of my Pontificate.


FRANCISCUS


APPENDIX I

Foreword of the Apostolic Constitution Sapientia Christiana (1979)


I

Christian wisdom, which the Church teaches by divine authority,
continuously inspires the faithful of Christ zealously to endeavour to
relate human affairs and activities with religious values in a single
living synthesis. Under the direction of these values all things are
mutually connected for the glory of God and the integral development of
the human person, a development that includes both corporal and
spiritual well - being.[109][89]

Indeed, the Church's mission of spreading the Gospel not only demands
that the Good News be preached ever more widely and to ever greater
numbers of men and women, but that the very power of the Gospel should
permeate thought patterns, standards of judgment, and norms of
behaviour; in a word, it is necessary that the whole of human culture
be steeped in the Gospel.[110][90]

The cultural atmosphere in which a human being lives has a great
influence upon his or her way of thinking and, thus, of acting.
Therefore, a division between faith and culture is more than a small
impediment to evangelization, while a culture penetrated with the
Christian spirit is an instrument that favours the spreading of the
Good News.

Furthermore, the Gospel is intended for all peoples of every age and
land and is not bound exclusively to any particular culture. It is
valid for pervading all cultures so as to illumine them with the light
of divine revelation and to purify human conduct, renewing them in
Christ.

For this reason, the Church of Christ strives to bring the Good News to
every sector of humanity so as to be able to convert the consciences of
human beings, both individually and collectively, and to fill with the
light of the Gospel their works and undertakings, their entire lives,
and, indeed, the whole of the social environment in which they are
engaged. In this way the Church carries out her mission of evangelizing
also by advancing human culture.[111][91]


II

In this activity of the Church with regard to culture, Catholic
universities have had and still have special importance. By their
nature they aim to secure that "the Christian outlook should acquire a
public, stable and universal influence in the whole process of the
promotion of higher culture."[112][92]

In fact, as my Predecessor Pope Pius XI recalled in the preface to the
Apostolic Constitution Deus Scientiarum Dominus,[113][93] there arose
within the Church, from her earliest period, didascaleia for imparting
instruction in Christian wisdom so that people's lives and conduct
might be formed. From these houses of Christian wisdom the most
illustrious Fathers and Doctors of the Church, teachers and
ecclesiastical writers, drew their knowledge.

With the passing of centuries schools were established in the
neighbourhood of cathedrals and monasteries, thanks especially to the
zealous initiatives of bishops and monks. These schools imparted both
ecclesiastical doctrine and secular culture, forming them into one
whole. From these schools arose the universities, those glorious
institutions of the Middle Ages which, from their beginning, had the
Church as their most bountiful mother and patroness.

Subsequently, when civil authorities, to promote the common good, began
and developed their own universities, the Church, loyal to her very
nature, did not desist from founding and favouring such kinds of
centres of learning and institutions of instruction. This is shown by
the considerable number of Catholic universities established in recent
times in nearly all parts of the world. Conscious of her worldwide
salvific mission, the Church wishes to be especially joined to these
centres of higher learning and she desires that they flourish
everywhere and work effectively to make Christ's true message present
in the field of human culture and to make it advance in that field.

In order that Catholic universities might better achieve this goal, my
Predecessor Pope Pius XII sought to stimulate their united activity
when, by his Apostolic Brief of July 27, 1949, he formally established
the International Federation of Catholic Universities. It was "to
include all Athenaea which the Holy See either has canonically erected
or will in the future erect in the world, or will have explicitly
recognized as following the norms of Catholic teaching and as
completely in conformity with that teaching."[114][94]

The Second Vatican Council, for this reason, did not hesitate to affirm
that "the Church devotes considerable care to schools of higher
learning," and it strongly recommended that Catholic universities
should "be established in suitable locations throughout the world" and
that "the students of these institutions should be truly outstanding in
learning, ready to shoulder duties of major responsibility in society
and to witness to the faith before the world."[115][95] As the Church
well knows, "the future of society and of the Church herself is closely
bound up with the development of young people engaged in higher
studies."[116][96]


III

It is not surprising, however, that among Catholic universities the
Church has always promoted with special care Ecclesiastical Faculties
and Universities, which is to say those concerned particularly with
Christian revelation and questions connected therewith and which are
therefore more closely connected with her mission of evangelization.

In the first place, the Church has entrusted to these Faculties the
task of preparing with special care students for the priestly ministry,
for teaching the sacred sciences, and for the more arduous tasks of the
apostolate. It is also the task of these Faculties "to explore more
profoundly the various areas of the sacred disciplines so that day by
day a deeper understanding of sacred revelation will be developed, the
heritage of Christian wisdom handed down by our ancestors will be more
plainly brought into view, dialogue will be fostered with our separated
brothers and sisters and with non - Christians, and solutions will be
found for problems raised by doctrinal progress."[117][97]

In fact, new sciences and new discoveries pose new problems that
involve the sacred disciplines and demand an answer. While carrying out
their primary duty of attaining through theological research a deeper
grasp of revealed truth, those engaged in the sacred sciences should
therefore maintain contact with scholars of other disciplines, whether
these are believers or not, and should try to evaluate and interpret
the latters' affirmations and judge them in the light of revealed
truth.[118][98]

From this assiduous contact with reality, theologians are also
encouraged to seek a more suitable way of communicating doctrine to
their contemporaries working in other various fields of knowledge, for
"the deposit of faith, or the truths contained in our venerable
doctrine, is one thing; quite another is the way in which these truths
are formulated, while preserving the same sense and meaning."[119][99]
This will be very useful so that among the People of God religious
practice and uprightness of soul may proceed at an equal pace with the
progress of science and technology, and so that, in pastoral work, the
faithful may be gradually led to a purer and more mature life of faith.

The possibility of a connection with the mission of evangelization also
exists in Faculties of other sciences which, although lacking a special
link with Christian revelation, can still help considerably in the work
of evangelizing. These are looked at by the Church precisely under this
aspect when they are erected as Ecclesiastical Faculties. They
therefore have a particular relationship with the Church's Hierarchy.

Thus, the Apostolic See, in carrying out its mission, is clearly aware
of its right and duty to erect and promote Ecclesiastical Faculties
dependent on itself, either with a separate existence or as parts of
universities, Faculties destined for the education of both
ecclesiastical and lay students. This See is very desirous that the
whole People of God, under the guidance of their Shepherds, should
cooperate to ensure that these centres of learning contribute
effectively to the growth of the faith and of Christian life.


IV

Ecclesiastical Faculties - which are ordered to the common good of the
Church and have a valuable relationship with the whole ecclesial
community - ought to be conscious of their importance in the Church and
of their participation in the ministry of the Church. Indeed, those
Faculties which treat of matters that are close to Christian revelation
should also be mindful of the orders which Christ, the Supreme Teacher,
gave to His Church regarding this ministry: "Go therefore and make
disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and
of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I
have commanded you" (Mt. 28:19 - 20). From this it follows that there
must be in these Faculties that adherence by which they are joined to
the full doctrine of Christ, whose authentic guardian and interpreter
has always been through the ages the Magisterium of the Church.

Bishops' Conferences in the individual nations and regions where these
Faculties exist must diligently see to their care and progress, at the
same time that they ceaselessly promote their fidelity to the Church's
doctrine, so that these Faculties may bear witness before the whole
community of the faithful to their wholehearted following of the
above-mentioned command of Christ. This witness must always be borne
both by the Faculty as such and by each and every member of the
Faculty. Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties have been
constituted in the Church for the building up and perfecting of
Christ's faithful, and they must always bear this in mind as a
criterion in the carrying out of their work.

Teachers are invested with very weighty responsibility in fulfilling a
special ministry of the word of God and in being instructors of the
faith for the young. Let them, above all, therefore be for their
students, and for the rest of the faithful, witnesses of the living
truth of the Gospel and examples of fidelity to the Church. It is
fitting to recall the serious words of Pope Paul VI: "The task of the
theologian is carried out with a view to building up ecclesial
communion so that the People of God may grow in the experience of
faith."[120][100]


V

To attain these purposes, Ecclesiastical Faculties should be organized
in such a way as to respond to the new demands of the present day. For
this reason, the Second Vatican Council stated that their laws should
be subjected to revision.[121][101]

In fact, the Apostolic Constitution Deus Scientiarum Dominus,
promulgated by my Predecessor Pope Pius XI on May 24, 1931, did much in
its time renew higher ecclesiastical studies. However, as a result of
changed circumstances, it now needs to be suitably adapted and altered.

In the course of nearly fifty years great changes have taken place not
only in civil society but also in the Church herself. Important events,
especially the Second Vatican Council, have occurred, events which have
affected both the internal life of the Church and her external
relationships with Christians of other churches, with non-Christians,
and with non-believers, as well as with all those in favour of a more
human civilization.

In addition, there is a steadily growing interest being shown in the
theological sciences, not only among the clergy but also by lay people,
who are attending theological schools in increasing numbers. These
schools have, as a consequence, greatly multiplied in recent times.

Finally, a new attitude has arisen about the structure of universities
and Faculties, both civil and ecclesiastical. This is a result of the
justified desire for a university life open to greater participation, a
desire felt by all those in any way involved in university life.

Nor can one ignore the great evolution that has taken place in
pedagogical and didactic methods, which call for new ways of organizing
studies. Then too there is the closer connection that is being felt
more and more between various sciences and disciplines, as well as the
desire for greater cooperation in the whole university environment.

To meet these new demands, the Sacred Congregation for Catholic
Education, responding to the mandate received from the Council, already
in 1967 began to study the question of renewal along the lines
indicated by the Council. On May 20, 1968, it promulgated the Normae
quaedam ad Constitutionem Apostolicam "Deus Scientiarum Dominus" de
studiis academicis ecclesiasticis recognoscendam, which has exercised a
beneficial influence during recent years.


VI

Now, however, this work needs to be completed and perfected with a new
law. This law, abrogating the Apostolic Constitution Deus Scientiarum
Dominus and the Norms of Application attached to it, as well as the
Normae quaedam published on May 20, 1968, by the Sacred Congregation
for Catholic Education, includes some still valid elements from these
documents, while laying down new norms whereby the renewal that has
already successfully begun can be developed and completed.

Nobody is unaware of the difficulties that appear to impede the
promulgation of a new Apostolic Constitution. In the first place, there
is the "passage of time" which brings changes so rapidly that it seems
impossible to lay down anything stable and permanent. Then there is the
"diversity of places" which seems to call for a pluralism which would
make it appear almost impossible to issue common norms, valid for all
parts of the world.

Since however there exist Ecclesiastical Faculties throughout the
world, which are erected and approved by the Holy See and which grant
academic degrees in its name, it is necessary that a certain
substantial unity be respected and that the requisites for gaining
academic degrees be clearly laid down and have universal value. Things
which are necessary and which are foreseen as being relatively stable
must be set down by law, while at the same time a proper freedom must
be left for introducing into the Statutes of the individual Faculties
further specifications, taking into account varying local conditions
and the university customs obtaining in each region. In this way,
legitimate progress in academic studies is neither hindered nor
restricted, but rather is directed through right channels towards
obtaining better results. Moreover, together with the legitimate
differentiation of the Faculties, the unity of the Catholic Church in
these centres of education will also be clear to everyone.

Therefore, the Sacred Congregation for Catholic Education, by command
of my Predecessor Pope Paul VI, has consulted first of all, the
Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties themselves, then, the
departments of the Roman Curia and the other bodies interested. After
this, it established a commission of experts who, under the direction
of the same Congregation, have carefully reviewed the legislation
covering ecclesiastical academic studies.

This work has now been successfully completed, and Pope Paul VI was
about to promulgate this Constitution, as he so ardently desired to do,
when he died; likewise Pope John Paul I was prevented by sudden death
from doing so. After long and careful consideration of the matter, I
decree and lay down, by my apostolic authority, the following laws and
norms.



NORMS OF APPLICATION

OF THE CONGREGATION FOR CATHOLIC EDUCATION FOR THE CORRECT
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE APOSTOLIC CONSTITUTION

VERITATIS GAUDIUM


The Congregation for Catholic Education, according to article 10 of the
Apostolic Constitution Veritatis Gaudium, presents to the
Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties the following Norms of
Application and orders that they be faithfully observed.


PART ONE

GENERAL NORMS

Section I

Nature and Purpose of Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 1-10)


Article 1. § 1. The norms on Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties
are also to be applied to the other institutions of higher education,
taking into account their particular nature, congrua congruis
referendo, which have been canonically erected or approved by the Holy
See with the right to confer academic degrees by the authority of the
same See.

§ 2. Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties, as well as the other
institutions of higher education, are normally subject to evaluation by
the Holy See's Agency for the Evaluation and Promotion of Quality in
Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties (AVEPRO).

Article 2. With a view to promoting scientific research, a strong
recommendation is given for specialized research centres, scientific
periodicals and collections, and meetings of learned societies, as well
as all other suitable forms of scientific cooperation.

Article 3. The tasks for which students can be prepared can be either
strictly scientific, such as research or teaching, or else pastoral.
Account must be taken of this diversity in the curriculum of studies
and in the determining of the academic degrees, while always preserving
the scientific nature of the studies for both.

Article 4. Active participation in the ministry of evangelization
concerns the action of the Church in pastoral work, in ecumenism, and
in missionary undertakings. It also extends to the understanding,
defence and diffusion of the faith. At the same time it extends to the
whole context of culture and human society.

Article 5. Bishops' Conferences, collaborating with the Apostolic See
in these matters also, are thus to follow carefully both Universities
and Faculties:

1.     together with the Chancellor they are to foster their progress
and, while of course respecting the autonomy of science according to
the mind of the Second Vatican Council, they are to be solicitous for
their scientific and ecclesial condition;

2.     with regard to common problems which occur within the boundaries
of their own region, they are to help, inspire, and harmonize their
activity;

3.     while always maintaining a high scientific level, they are to
take care that there is an adequate number of such academic
institutions, corresponding to the needs of the Church and cultural
progress in their own region;

4.     to do all this, they are to constitute among themselves a
commission for this purpose, which should be helped by experts.

Article 6. An institution upon which the Congregation for Catholic
Education has conferred the right to grant only academic degrees of the
second and third cycle is called an "Institute ad instar Facultatis".

Article 7. § 1. In preparing the Statutes and Plan of Studies, the
norms in Appendix I of these Norms of Application must be kept in mind.

§ 2. In accordance with the procedures established in the Statutes,
Universities and Faculties can, on their own authority, establish
By-Laws that, while following the Statutes, define in more detail
matters relating to their constitution, governance and procedures.

Article 8. § 1. The canonical value of an academic degree means that
such a degree enables one to assume an office in the Church for which a
degree is required. This is, first of all, for teaching sacred sciences
in Faculties, major seminaries, or equivalent institutions.

§ 2. The conditions to be fulfilled for the recognition of individual
degrees mentioned in article 9 of the Apostolic Constitution, besides
the consent of the relevant local or regional ecclesiastical
authorities, concern, first of all, the college of teachers, the Plan
of Studies, and the means to support scientific work.

§ 3. Degrees thus recognized, for certain canonical effects only, may
never be considered simply as equal to academic canonical degrees.


Section II

The Academic Community and Its Government
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 11-21)


Article 9. The duties of the Chancellor are:

1.     to promote continually the progress of the University or
Faculty, to advance its scientific progress and its ecclesiastical
identity, to ensure that Catholic doctrine is integrally followed, and
to enforce the faithful implementation of the Statutes and the
prescriptions of the Holy See;

2.     to help ensure close relationships between all the different
ranks and members of the community;

3.     to propose to the Congregation for Catholic Education the names
of those who, according to the norm of art. 18 of the Apostolic
Constitution, are to be nominated or confirmed as Rector, President or
Dean, as well as the names of the teachers for whom a nihil obstat is
to be requested;

4.     to receive the profession of faith of the Rector or President or
Dean;[122][102]

5.     to give to or take away from the teachers the canonical mission
or permission to teach, according to the norms of the Constitution;

6.     to request the nihil obstat of the Congregation for the
conferral of honorary doctorates;

7.     to inform the Congregation for Catholic Education about more
important matters and to send to that Congregation every five years a
detailed report on the academic, moral, and economic condition of the
University or Faculty, and its strategic plan, along with his own
judgement, following the schema drawn up by the same Congregation.

Article 10. If the University or Faculty depends upon a collegial
entity (for instance, on a Bishops' Conference), one designated member
of the group is to exercise the office of Chancellor.

Article 11. The local Ordinary, if he is not the Chancellor, since he
has the pastoral responsibility for his Diocese, is, whenever something
in the University or Faculty is known to be contrary to doctrine,
morals, or ecclesiastical discipline, to take the matter to the
Chancellor so that the latter may take action. In case the Chancellor
does nothing, the Ordinary may have recourse to the Holy See, without
prejudice to his own obligation to provide personally for action in
those cases which are more serious or urgent and which carry danger for
his Diocese.

Article 12. The appointment or confirmation mentioned in article 18 of
the Apostolic Constitution is also required for a subsequent term of
office for the office-holders cited.

Article 13. What is contained in article 19 of the Constitution must be
explained further in the proper Statutes of the University or those of
the individual Faculties, giving more weight, as the case may require,
either to collegial or else to personal government, while always
preserving both forms. Account should be taken of the university
practice of the region where the Faculty is located or of the Religious
Institute on which the Faculty may depend.

Article 14. Besides the University Council (Academic Senate) and the
Faculty Council, both of which must everywhere exist even if under
different names, the Statutes can suitably establish other special
councils or commissions for directing and promoting various sectors:
scientific, pedagogy, discipline, finances, etc.

Article 15. § 1. According to the Constitution, a Rector is one who
presides over a University; a President is one who presides over an
Institute or a Faculty sui iuris; a Dean is one who presides over a
Faculty which is a part of a University; Director is one who presides
over an academic institute that is aggregated or incorporated.

§ 2. The Statutes are to fix a term of office for these offices and are
to determine in what way and how many consecutive times their term can
be renewed.

Article 16. It belongs to the office of the Rector or President:

1.     to direct, promote, and coordinate all the activity of the
academic community;
2.     to be the representative of the University or of the Institute
or Faculty sui iuris;
3.     to convoke the Council of the University or of the Institute or
Faculty sui iuris and preside over the same according to the norms of
the Statutes;
4.     to watch over the administration of temporalities;
5.     to refer more important matters to the Chancellor;
6.     to ensure that, every year, the institution's data in the
data-base of the Congregation for Catholic Education be updated
electronically.
Article 17. The Dean of the Faculty is:
1.     to promote and coordinate all the activity of the Faculty,
especially matters regarding studies, and to see to providing with due
speed for their needs;
2.     to convoke the Faculty Council and preside over it;
3.     to admit or exclude students in the name of the Rector according
to the norms of the Statutes;
4.     to refer to the Rector what is done or proposed by the Faculty;
5.     to see that the instructions of higher authorities are carried
out;
6.     to update electronically, at least once a year, the
institution's data in the data-base of the Congregation for Catholic
Education.


Section III

Teachers
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 22-30)


Article 18. § 1. Teachers who are permanently attached to a Faculty
are, in the first place, those who are assumed in full and firm right
and who are called Ordinary Professors. Next come Extraordinary
Professors. It can also be useful to have others, according to
university practice.

§ 2. Faculties must have a minimum number of permanent teachers: twelve
for the Faculty of Theology (and, if necessary, at least three with the
required degrees in philosophy, q.v. Norms of Application, article 57);
seven for the Faculty of Philosophy; and five for the Faculty of Canon
Law. Moreover, there must be either five or four in Higher Institutes
of Religious Sciences, depending on whether the Institute has both the
first and second cycle, or only the first cycle. All other Faculties
must have at least five permanent teachers.

§ 3. Besides permanent teachers, there are usually others who are
designated by various titles, in the first place those invited from
other Faculties.

§ 4. Finally, to carry out certain academic functions it is also
opportune to have Assistants, who must possess an appropriate degree.

Article 19. § 1. By a suitable Doctorate is meant one that corresponds
to the discipline to be taught.

§ 2. In the Faculties of Theology and Canon Law, if the discipline is
sacred or connected with the sacred, the Doctorate must normally be
canonical. In the event that the Doctorate is not canonical, at least
the canonical Licentiate is required.

§ 3. In all other Faculties, if the teacher has neither a canonical
Doctorate nor a canonical Licentiate, he or she can be appointed as a
permanent teacher only on condition that his or her formation is
coherent with the identity of an Ecclesiastical Faculty. In evaluating
candidates for teaching posts, it will be necessary to pay heed not
only to their necessary expertise in the area to which they are being
assigned to teach, but also to whether their publications and teaching
are consonant with, and adhere to, the truth that is transmitted by the
faith.

Article 20. § 1. Teachers belonging to other churches and ecclesial
communities, co-opted according to the norms of competent
ecclesiastical authority,[123][103] require permission to teach from
the Chancellor.

§ 2. Teachers belonging to other churches and ecclesial communities
cannot teach doctrinal courses in the first cycle, but can teach other
disciplines.[124][104] In the second cycle, they can be called upon as
invited teachers.[125][105]

Article 21. § 1. The Statutes must establish when a permanent status is
conferred in relationship with the obtaining of the nihil obstat that
must be procured in accordance with article 27 of the Constitution.

§ 2. The nihil obstat of the Holy See is the declaration that, in
accordance with the Constitution and the special Statutes, there
appears nothing to impede a nomination which is proposed, but it does
not, of itself, confer a right to teach. If some impediment should
exist, this will be communicated to the Chancellor who will listen to
the teacher in regard to the matter.

§ 3. If particular circumstances of time or place impede the requesting
of the nihil obstat from the Holy See, the Chancellor is to take
counsel with the Congregation for Catholic Education to find a suitable
solution.

§ 4. In Faculties which are under special concordat law the established
norms are to be followed and, if they exist, those particular norms
decreed by the Congregation for Catholic Education.

Article 22. The time interval between promotions, which must be at
least three years, is to be set down in the Statutes.

Article 23. § 1. Teachers, first of all the permanent ones, are to seek
to collaborate with each other. It is also recommended that there be
collaboration with the teachers of other Faculties, especially those
with subjects that have an affinity or some connection with those of
the Faculty.

§ 2. One cannot be at one and the same time a permanent teacher in more
than one Faculty.

Article 24. § 1. The Statutes are to set out with care the procedure in
regard to the suspension or removal of a teacher, especially in matters
concerning doctrine.

§ 2. Care must be taken that, first of all, these matters be settled
between the Rector or President or Dean and the teacher himself. If
they are not settled there, the matters should be dealt with by an
appropriate Council or committee, so that the first examination of the
facts be carried out within the University or Faculty itself. If this
is not sufficient, the matters are to be referred to the Chancellor,
who, with the help of experts, either of the University or the Faculty
or from other places, must consider the matter and provide for a
solution. The teacher must always be afforded the right to know the
cause and the evidence, as well as the right to explain and defend his
or her own reasons. The right remains for recourse to the Holy See for
a definitive solution of the case.[126][106]

§ 3. However, in more grave or urgent cases, for the good of the
students and the faithful, the Chancellor can suspend the teacher for
the duration of the regular procedure.

Article 25. Diocesan clerics and Religious or those equivalent to them,
in order to be teachers in a Faculty and to remain as such, must have
the consent of their proper Ordinary, Hierarch or Superior, following
the norms established in these matters by competent Church authority.


Section IV

Students
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 31-35)


Article 26. § 1. The legitimate documentation, mentioned in article 31
of the Constitution:

1. about the student's moral life: for clergy, seminarians and
Religious, this is to be given by their own Ordinary, Hierarch or
Superior, or by one delegated by them; for all other persons, by some
Church person;

2. about previous studies: this is in the academic level required by
the norm of article 32 of the Constitution.

§ 2. Since the studies required before entry into a University differ
from one country to another, the Faculty has the right and duty to
investigate from the documentation whether all the disciplines have
been studied which the Faculty itself considers necessary.

§ 3. A suitable knowledge of the Latin language is required for the
Faculties of the sacred sciences, so that the students can understand
and use the sources of these sciences as well as the documents of the
Church.[127][107]

§ 4. If one of the disciplines has been found not to have been studied
or to have been studied in an insufficient way, the Faculty is to
require that this be made up at a suitable time and verified by an
examination.

Article 27. Besides ordinary students, that is, those studying for
academic degrees, extraordinary students can be allowed to attend the
courses, according to the norms determined in the Statutes.

Article 28. The transfer of a student from one Faculty to another can
take place only at the beginning of the academic year or semester,
after a careful examination of his academic and disciplinary situation.
But in any event nobody can be given an academic degree unless all the
requirements for the degree are fulfilled as the Statutes and Plan of
Studies demand.

Article 29. In the norms which determine the suspension or the
expulsion of a student from a Faculty, the student's right to defend
himself or herself must be safeguarded.


Section V

Officials and Administrative and Service Personnel
(Apostolic Constitution, article 36)


Section VI

Plan of Studies
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 37-44)


Article 30. The Plan of Studies requires the approval of the
Congregation for Catholic Education.[128][108]

Article 31. The Plan of Studies of each Faculty must define which
disciplines (principal and auxiliary) are obligatory and must be
followed by all, and which are free or optional.

Article 32. Equally, the Plan of Studies is to determine the practical
exercises and seminars in which the students must not only be present
but also actively work together with their colleagues and produce their
own written papers.

Article 33. § 1. The lectures and practical exercises are to be
suitably distributed so as to foster private study and personal work
under the guidance of the teachers.

§ 2. Part of the courses can be realized by distance learning, if the
Plan of Studies approved by the Congregation for Catholic Education
foresees it and specifies its conditions, especially as regards the
examinations.

Article 34. § 1. The Statutes or Rule of the University or of the
Faculty are also to determine in what way the examiners are to make
their judgments about candidates.

§ 2. In the final judgment about the candidates for the individual
academic degrees, account is to be taken of all the marks received in
the various tests in the same cycle, whether written or oral.

§ 3. In the examinations for the giving of degrees, especially the
Doctorate, it is also useful to invite examiners from outside the
Faculty.


Section VII

Academic Degrees and Other Awards
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 45-52)


Article 35. In Ecclesiastical Universities or Faculties which are
canonically erected or approved, the academic degrees are given by
authority of the Holy See.

Article 36. § 1. The Statutes are to establish the necessary requisites
for the preparation of the doctoral dissertation and the norms for its
public defence and publication.

§ 2. Publishing the dissertation electronically is admissible, if the
Plan of Studies foresees it and determines its conditions, in such a
way that the dissertation be permanently accessible.

Article 37. A printed copy of the published dissertation must be sent
to the Congregation for Catholic Education. It is recommended that
copies also be sent to other Ecclesiastical Faculties, at least those
of the same region, which deal with the same sciences.

Article 38. Authentic documents regarding the conferring of degrees are
to be signed by the academic authorities, according to the Statutes,
and then countersigned by the Secretary of the University or Faculty
and have the appropriate seal affixed.

Article 39. In countries where the international conventions stipulated
by the Holy See require it, and in institutions where the academic
authorities deem it opportune, as well as the authentic documents of
the academic degrees there is also to be a document with further
information regarding the curriculum of studies completed (for example,
the Diploma Supplement).

Article 40. Honorary doctorates are not to be conferred except with the
consent of the Chancellor, who must first obtain the nihil obstat of
the Holy See and listen to the opinion of the University or Faculty
Council.

Article 41. So that a Faculty may grant other degrees, other than the
academic degrees conferred by authority of the Holy See, it is
necessary that:

1. the Congregation for Catholic Education has given its nihil obstat
for the conferral of the degree in question;

2. the respective Plan of Studies establishes the nature of the degree,
indicating expressly that it is not an academic degree conferred by
authority of the Holy See;

3. the Diploma itself declares that the degree is not conferred by
authority of the Holy See.


Section VIII

Didactic Facilities
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 53-56)


Article 42. The University or Faculty must have lecture halls which are
truly functional and worthy and suited to the teaching of the various
disciplines and to the number of students.

Article 43. There must be a library open for consultation, in which are
available the principal works required for the scientific work of both
teachers and students.

Article 44. Library norms are to be established in such a way that
access and use are made particularly easy for teachers and students.

Article 45. Cooperation and coordination between libraries of the same
city and region should be fostered.


Section IX

Financial Administration
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 57-60)


Article 46. § 1. To provide for continuous good administration, the
academic authorities must inform themselves at set times about the
financial situation and they must provide for careful, periodic audits.

§ 2. The Rector or President is to transmit an annual report to the
Chancellor on the economic situation of the University or Faculty.

Article 47. § 1. Suitable ways should be found so that tuition fees do
not prevent access to academic degrees for intellectually gifted
students who give good hope of one day being most useful to the Church.

§ 2. Therefore care must be taken to set up for the students' benefit
particular forms of economic subsidy, funded by the Church, civil
authorities or privately.


Section X
Strategic Planning and Cooperation of Faculties
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 61-67)


Article 48. § 1. In order to undertake the erection of a new University
or Faculty, it is necessary that:

a) a true need or usefulness can be demonstrated, which cannot be
satisfied by affiliation, aggregation, or incorporation,

b) the necessary prerequisites are present, which are mainly:

1. permanently engaged teachers who in number and quality respond to
the nature and demands of a Faculty;

2. a suitable number of students;

3. a library with instruments for scientific work, and lecture halls;

4. economic means really sufficient for a University or Faculty;

c) the Statutes, together with the Plan of Studies, be presented, which
are to be in conformity with this Constitution and with these Norms of
Application.

§ 2. The Congregation for Catholic Education - after listening to the
advice both of the Bishops' Conference and of the diocesan or eparchial
Bishop, mainly from the pastoral viewpoint, and next of experts,
principally from nearby Faculties, mainly from the scientific viewpoint
- will decide about the suitability of a new erection.

Article 49. When, on the other hand, the approval of a University or
Faculty is undertaken, this is to be done:

a) after the consent of both the Bishops' Conference and of the
diocesan or eparchial Bishop has been obtained;

b) after the conditions stated in article 48, § 1, under b) and c) are
fulfilled.

Article 50. The conditions for affiliation regard, above all, the
number and qualification of teachers, the Plan of Studies, the library,
and the duty of the affiliating Faculty to help the institution being
affiliated. Therefore, it is usually required that the affiliating
Faculty and the affiliated Institute be in the same country or cultural
region.

Article 51. § 1. Aggregation is the linking of some Institute with a
Faculty, and embraces only the first and second cycles, for the purpose
of granting the corresponding academic degrees through the Faculty.

§ 2. Incorporation is the insertion of some Institute into a Faculty,
which embraces either the second or third cycle or both, for the
purpose of granting the corresponding academic degrees through the
Faculty.

§ 3. Aggregation and incorporation cannot be granted unless the
Institute is adequately equipped to pursue those specific academic
degrees, in such a way that there is a well-founded hope that, through
the connection with the Faculty, the desired ends will be achieved.

Article 52. § 1. Cooperation is to be fostered among the Ecclesiastical
Faculties themselves by means of teacher exchanges, mutual
communication of scientific work, and the promoting of common research
for the benefit of the People of God.
§2. Cooperation with other Faculties, even non-Catholic ones, should be
promoted, care always however being taken to preserve one's own
identity.

PART TWO

SPECIAL NORMS

Section I
Faculty of Theology
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 69-76)


Article 53. The theological disciplines are to be taught in such a way
that their organic connection is made clear and that light be shed upon
the various aspects or dimensions that pertain intrinsically to the
nature of sacred doctrine. The chief ones are the biblical, patristic,
historical, liturgical, and pastoral dimensions. The students are to be
led to a deep grasp of the material, at the same time as they are led
to form a personal synthesis, to acquire a mastery of the method of
scientific research, and thus to become able to explain sacred doctrine
appropriately.

Article 54. In presenting doctrine, those norms are to be followed
which are in the documents of the Second Vatican Council,[129][109] as
well as those found in more recent documents of the Holy See[130][110]
insofar as these pertain to academic studies.

Article 55. The obligatory disciplines are:

1. In the first cycle:

a) - The philosophical disciplines needed for theology, which are above
all systematic philosophy and the history of philosophy (ancient,
medieval, modern, contemporary). Besides a general introduction, the
systematic teaching must include the main areas of philosophy: 1)
metaphysics (understood as philosophy of being and natural theology),
2) philosophy of nature, 3) philosophy of man, 4) moral and political
philosophy, 5) logic and philosophy of knowledge.

- Excluding the human sciences, the strictly philosophical disciplines
(q.v. Norms of Appl., art. 66, 1, a) must constitute at least 60% of
the number of credits in the first two years. Each year must include a
number of credits suited to one year of full-time university studies.

- It is highly preferable that the philosophy courses be concentrated
in the first two years of philosophical-theological formation. Within
this two-year period, these philosophical studies, which are undertaken
in view of theology studies, will be integrated with the introductory
theology courses.

b) the theological disciplines, namely:
* Sacred Scripture: introduction and exegesis;
* fundamental theology, which also includes reference to ecumenism,
non-Christian religions, and atheism, as well as other currents of
contemporary culture;
* dogmatic theology;
* moral and spiritual theology;
* pastoral theology;
* liturgy;
* Church history, patrology, archaeology;
* Canon law.

c) the auxiliary disciplines, namely, some of the sciences of man and,
besides Latin, the biblical languages insofar as they are required for
the following cycles.

2. In the second cycle: the particular disciplines established in
various sections, according to the diverse specializations offered,
along with the practical exercises and seminars, including a special
written dissertation.

3. In the third cycle: the Plan of Studies is to determine if
particular disciplines are to be taught and which ones, together with
practical exercises and seminars, as well as what ancient and modern
languages the student must be able to understand to be able to write
his or her thesis.

Article 56. In the five-year basic cycle, diligent care must be
exercised that all the disciplines are taught with order, fullness, and
with correct method, so that the student receives harmoniously and
effectively a solid, organic, and complete basic instruction in
theology, which will enable him either to go on to the next cycle's
higher studies or to exercise some office in the Church.

Article 57. The number of professors who teach philosophy must be at
least three, who have the required degrees in philosophy (q.v. Norms of
Appl., art. 19 and 67 § 2). They must be permanent, i.e. dedicated
full-time to the teaching of philosophy and to research in that field.

Article 58. Besides examinations or equivalent tests for each
discipline, at the end of the first and of the second cycle there is to
be a comprehensive examination or equivalent test, so that the student
proves that he or she has fully achieved the scientific formation
intended by the respective cycle.

Article 59. It belongs to the Faculty to determine under what
conditions students who have completed the curriculum of studies in
philosophy and theology in a major seminary or in some other approved
institute of higher learning may be admitted into the second cycle,
taking careful account of their previous studies and, where necessary,
prescribing special courses and examinations.


Section II

Faculty of Canon Law
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 77-80)


Article 60. In a Faculty of Canon Law, whether Latin or Oriental, there
must be a careful setting forth both of the history and texts of
ecclesiastical laws and of their disposition and connection, as well as
their theological foundations.

Article 61. The following disciplines are obligatory:

1. In the first cycle

a) elements of philosophy: philosophical anthropology, metaphysics,
ethics;

b) elements of theology: an introduction to Sacred Scripture;
fundamental theology; the transmission and credibility of divine
revelation; Trinitarian theology; Christology; divine grace; in a
special way, ecclesiology; general and special sacramental theology;
fundamental and special moral theology;

c) fundamental canonical structures (institutiones generales) of canon
law;

d) Latin.

2. In the second cycle

a) The books of the Code of Canon Law or the Code of Canons of the
Eastern Churches, in all their parts, and the other norms in force;

b) Related disciplines: the theology of canon law; the philosophy of
law; fundamental concepts of Roman law; elements of civil law; the
history of the fundamental canonical structures of canon law; the
history of the sources of canon law; the relationship between the
Church and civil society; canonical administrative and judicial praxis;

c) an introduction to the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches for
students at a Latin Faculty of Canon Law; and introduction to the Code
of Canon Law for students at an Oriental Faculty of Canon Law;

d) Latin;

e) the optional courses, exercises and seminars as required by each
faculty.

3. In the third cycle

a) canonical Latin

b) optional courses or exercises as required by each faculty.

Article 62. § 1. Students who successfully completed the
philosophical-theological curriculum in a major seminary or in a
theological faculty can be admitted immediately into the second cycle,
unless the Dean deems it necessary or opportune, prior to their
admittance, to require that they take a preliminary course in Latin or
in the fundamental concepts of canon law.

Students who prove they have studied some of the subjects of the first
cycle at an appropriate faculty or university-level institute may be
dispensed from them.

§ 2. Students who hold an academic degree in civil law may be dispensed
from some courses of the second cycle (such as Roman law and civil
law), but may not be exempt from the three-year curriculum of studies
for the Licentiate.

§ 3. After completing the second cycle, students must know Latin in
such a way as to be able to understand thoroughly the Code of Canon Law
and the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches, as well as the other
canonical documents. In the third cycle, as well as the knowledge of
Latin necessary so that they can interpret correctly the sources of
law, they must also know the other languages necessary for writing
their dissertation.

Article 63. Besides examinations or equivalent tests for each
discipline, at the end of the second cycle there is to be a
comprehensive examination or equivalent test, whereby the student
proves that he or she has fully received the scientific formation
demanded by the second cycle.


Section III

Faculty of Philosophy
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 81-84)


Article 64. § 1. The research and teaching of philosophy in an
Ecclesiastical Faculty of Philosophy must be rooted in the
"philosophical patrimony which is perennially valid",[131][111] which
has developed throughout the history, with special attention being
given to the work of Saint Thomas Aquinas. At the same time, the
philosophy taught in an Ecclesiastical Faculty must be open to the
contributions that more recent research has provided and continues to
offer. One must emphasize the sapiential and metaphysical dimensions of
philosophy.

§ 2. In the first cycle, philosophy is to be taught in such a way that
the students in the basic cycle will come to a solid and coherent
synthesis of doctrine, will learn to examine and judge the different
systems of philosophy, and will also gradually become accustomed to
personal philosophical reflection.

§ 3. If students of the first cycle of theological studies attend
first-cycle courses in the Faculty of Philosophy, care must be taken to
safeguard the specific nature of the content and purpose of each
educational track. At the end of the philosophical formation, an
academic degree in philosophy is not awarded (q.v. V.G., art. 74 a),
but the students can ask for a certificate attesting to the courses
they have attended and the credits they have obtained.

§ 4. The formation acquired in the first cycle can be completed in the
successive cycle, where one begins to specialize via greater
concentration on one area of philosophy and greater dedication of the
student to philosophical reflection.

§ 5. It is appropriate to distinguish clearly between, on the one hand,
studies in Ecclesiastical Faculties of Philosophy and, on the other
hand, the philosophical courses that form an integral part of the
studies in a Faculty of Theology or in a major seminary. In an
institution which has, at the same time, both an Ecclesiastical Faculty
of Philosophy and a Faculty of Theology, when the philosophy courses
that are part of the five-year first-cycle of theology are taken at the
Faculty of Philosophy, the authority who makes decisions regarding the
programme is the Dean of the Faculty of Theology, who will make those
decisions in conformity with the law in force, and while favouring
close collaboration with the Faculty of Philosophy.

Article 65. In the teaching of philosophy, the relevant norms should be
observed which are contained in the documents of the Second Vatican
Council[132][112] and in other recent documents of the Holy See
concerning academic studies.[133][113]

Article 66. The disciplines taught in various cycles are:

1. In the first cycle:

a) The obligatory basic subjects:

- A general introduction which aims, in particular, at showing the
sapiential dimension of philosophy.

- The main philosophical disciplines: 1) metaphysics (understood as
philosophy of being and natural theology), 2) philosophy of nature, 3)
philosophy of man, 4) moral and political philosophy, 5) logic and
philosophy of knowledge. Given the particular importance of
metaphysics, an adequate number of credits must be accorded to this
discipline.

- The history of philosophy: ancient, medieval, modern, and
contemporary. Careful examination of the various currents of thought
are to be accompanied, when possible, by the reading of texts of the
more important authors. Depending on requirements, a study of local
philosophies is to be added.

The obligatory basic subjects must constitute at least 60% and must not
exceed 70% of the number of credits of the first cycle.

b) The supplementary obligatory subjects:

- A study of the relationship between reason and Christian faith - that
is, between philosophy and theology - from a systematic and historical
point of view, paying attention to safeguarding both the autonomy of
each field as well as their interconnection.

- Latin, so as to be able to understand the philosophical works
(especially of Christian authors) written in that language. The
student's knowledge of Latin must be verified within the first two
years.

- A modern language other than one's mother-tongue, the knowledge of
which must be verified before the end of the third year.

- An introduction to the methodology of study and of scientific
research, which serves also as an introduction to the use of research
tools and the practice of disputation.

c) The optional additional subjects:

- Principles of literature and the arts;

- Principles of some of the human sciences or some of the natural
sciences (for example, psychology, sociology, history, biology or
physics). In a particular way, care must be taken to establish a
connection between the sciences and philosophy.

- Some other optional philosophical disciplines: for example,
philosophy of science, philosophy of culture, philosophy of art,
philosophy of technology, philosophy of language, philosophy of law or
philosophy of religion.

2. In the second cycle:

- some special disciplines established in various sections, according
to the diverse specializations offered, along with practical exercises
and seminars, including special Licentiate dissertation.

- Beginners or advanced ancient Greek, or a second modern language
other than that required for the first cycle or an advanced study of
the same.

3° In the third cycle:

The Plan of Studies of the Faculty is to determine if special
disciplines are to be taught and which ones, together with the
practical exercises and seminars. It is necessary to acquire a
knowledge of another language, or to acquire an advanced knowledge of
one of the languages previously studied.

Article 67. § 1. The faculty must employ, on a full-time basis, at
least seven duly qualified teachers, who thus can ensure the teaching
of each of the obligatory basic subjects (q.v. Norms of Appl., art. 66,
1; art. 48, § 1, b).

In particular, the first cycle must have at least five permanent
teachers allotted as follows: one in metaphysics, one in philosophy of
nature, one in philosophy of man, one in moral philosophy and politics,
one in logic and philosophy of knowledge.

For the other obligatory and optional subjects, the faculty can ask the
help of other teachers.

§ 2. A teacher is qualified to teach in an Ecclesiastical institution
if he or she has obtained the necessary academic degrees from an
Ecclesiastical Faculty of Philosophy (q.v. Norms of Appl., art. 19).

§ 3. If the teacher possess neither a canonical Doctorate nor a
canonical Licentiate, he or she may be appointed as permanent teacher
only on the condition that his or her philosophical training is
consistent with the content and method that is set forth in an
Ecclesiastical Faculty. In evaluating candidates for teaching positions
in an Ecclesiastical Faculty of Philosophy, the following must be
considered: the necessary expertise in their assigned subject; an
appropriate openness to the whole of knowledge; adherence, in their
publications and teaching, to the truth taught by the faith; an
adequately deepened knowledge of the harmonious relationship between
faith and reason.

§ 4. It is necessary to ensure always that, in an Ecclesiastical
Faculty of Philosophy, the majority of permanent teachers holds an
ecclesiastical Doctorate in philosophy, or else an ecclesiastical
Licentiate in a sacred science together with a Doctorate in philosophy
obtained in a non-Ecclesiastical University.

Article 68. In general, so that a student can be admitted to the second
cycle in philosophy, it is necessary that he or she has obtained the
Ecclesiastical Baccalaureate in philosophy.

If a student has studied philosophy in a non-Ecclesiastical Faculty of
Philosophy at a Catholic University or in another Institute of Higher
Studies, he or she can be admitted to the second cycle only after
having demonstrated, by means of an appropriate examination, that his
or her preparation is compatible with that which is set forth in an
Ecclesiastical Faculty of Philosophy, and after having filled any gaps
with respect to the years and curriculum foreseen for the first cycle
as established in the present Norms of Application. The choice of
courses must foster a synthesis of the subjects taught (q.v. V.G., art.
82, a). At the end of these supplementary studies, the student will be
admitted to the second cycle without receiving the Ecclesiastical
Baccalaureate in philosophy.

Article 69. § 1. Given the reform of the three-year first cycle of
ecclesiastical philosophical studies, which concludes with the
Baccalaureate in philosophy, the philosophical affiliation must be in
conformity with what has been decreed for the first cycle regarding the
number of years and the Plan of Studies (q.v. Norms of Appl., art. 66,
1). The number of permanent teachers in an affiliated Institute of
philosophy must be at least five, with the required qualifications
(q.v. Norms of Appl., art. 67).

§ 2. Given the reform of the two-year second cycle of ecclesiastical
philosophical studies, which concludes with the Licentiate in
philosophy, the philosophical aggregation must be in conformity with
what has been decreed for the first and second cycles regarding the
number of years and the Plan of Studies (q.v. V.G., art. 74 a and b;
Norms of Appl., art. 66). The number of permanent teachers in an
aggregated Institute of philosophy must be at least six, with the
required qualifications (q.v. Norms of Appl., art. 67).

§ 3. Given the reform of the philosophy course as part of the first
cycle of philosophy-theology studies, which concludes with the
Baccalaureate in theology, the philosophy formation given in an
affiliated Institute of theology must be in conformity with what has
been decreed with regard to the Plan of Studies (q.v. Norms of Appl.,
art. 55, 1). The number of permanent teachers of philosophy must be at
least two.


Section IV

Other Faculties
(Apostolic Constitution, articles 85-87)


Article 70. In order to achieve the goals set down in art. 85 of the
Apostolic Constitution, the following faculties or institutions "ad
instar Facultatis" have already been erected and authorized to grant
degrees by the Holy See itself:

-         Christian Archaeology
-         Bioethics
-         Social Communications
-         Law
-         Christian and Classical Letters
-         Liturgy
-         Missiology
-         Sacred Music
-         Ancient Near Eastern Studies
-         Psychology
-         Educational Sciences
-         Religious Sciences
-         Social Sciences
-         Spirituality
-         Church History
-         Arabic and Islamic Studies
-         Biblical Studies
-         Oriental Studies
-         Studies on Marriage and the Family


His Holiness Pope FRANCIS has approved and ordered to be published each
and every one of these Norms of Application, anything to the contrary
notwithstanding.

Rome, from the offices of the Congregation for Catholic Education,
December 27, 2017, the Feast of Saint John, Apostle and Evangelist.


Giuseppe Cardinal Versaldi
Prefect


Angelo Vincenzo Zani
Titular Archbishop of Volturno
Secretary
_______________________


APPENDIX I

Relating to Article 7 of the Norms of Application
Norms for Drawing Up Statutes of a University or Faculty


Taking into account what is contained in the Apostolic Constitution and
in the attached Norms of Application - and leaving to their own
internal regulations what is of a particular or changeable nature - the
Statutes of a University or Faculty must mainly deal with the following
points:

1.     The name, nature and purpose of the University or Faculty (with
a brief history in the foreword).
2.     The governance: the Chancellor; the personal and collegial
academic authorities and what their exact functions are; how the
personal authorities are chosen and how long their term of office is;
how the collegial authorities i.e. the members of the Councils are
chosen and how long their term is.
3.     The teachers: what the minimum number of teachers is in each
Faculty; into which ranks both the permanent and non-permanent are
divided; what requisites they must have; how they are hired, appointed,
promoted, and how they lose office (describing reasons needed and
procedures); their duties and rights.
4.     The students: requisites for enrolment; reasons and procedures
for their suspension; their duties and rights.
5.     Officials and administrative and service personnel: their duties
and rights.
6.     Academic degrees: what degrees are given in each Faculty and
under what conditions; other qualifications granted.
7.     Didactic and information facilities: the library, and how to
provide for its maintenance and growth; other forms of didactic
assistance and the scientific laboratories, if required.
8.     Financial administration: the financial endowment of the
University or Faculty and its administration; norms for paying the
leadership, teachers, administrative personnel; student fees; economic
assistance for the students.
9.     Relationships with other Faculties and Institutes, etc.

Plan of Studies

1.     What the Plan of Studies is for each Faculty.
2.     What cycles there are.
3.     What disciplines are taught: whether they are obligatory, and
how often they are taught.
4.     What seminars and practical exercises there are.
5.     What examinations or equivalent tests there are.
6.     Distance learning, where applicable.
_______________________

APPENDIX II

Relating to Article 70 of the Norms of Application
Sectors of Ecclesiastical Studies according to their Current (2017)
Academic Status in the Church

LIST

Note: These individual study Sectors, listed here alphabetically, are
currently in existence. Under each of these headings is to be found a
grouping of Specializations.
Existing Specializations are to be found in the data-base of
Ecclesiastical Institutions of Higher Education, accessible via the
web-site [134]www.educatio.va.
Furthermore, the aforementioned data-base includes all Institutions of
Higher Education erected or approved by the Congregation for Catholic
Education as being part of the educational system of the Holy See.

-       Christian Archaeology
-       Bioethics
-       Social Communications
-       Canon Law
-       Law
-       Philosophy
-       Christian and Classical Letters
-       Liturgy
-       Missiology
-       Sacred Music
-       Ancient Near Eastern Studies
-       Psychology
-       Educational Sciences
-       Religious Sciences
-       Social Sciences
-       Spirituality
-       Church History
-       Arabic and Islamic Studies
-       Biblical Studies
-       Oriental Studies
-       Studies on Marriage and the Family
-       Theology

_______________________



[135][1] Cf. Augustine, Conf. X, 23.33; I, 1, 1.
[136][2] Second Vatican Ecumenical Council, Pastoral Constitution on
the Church in the Modern World [137]Gaudium et Spes, 22.
[138][3]  Sapientia Christiana, Foreword, III.
[139][4]  [140]Video Message to Participants in an International
Theological Congress held at the Pontifical Catholic University of
Argentina [141], 1-3 September 2015.
[142][5]  [143]No. 14.
[144][6]  [145]Ibid., 16.
[146][7]  [147]Ibid.
[148][8] Cf. [149]ibid.
[150][9]  [151]Ibid.,19.
[152][10]  [153]Ibid., 20.
[154][11] I.
[155][12] No. 85.
[156][13] No. 14.
[157][14] No. 20.
[158][15] Encyclical Letter [159]Caritas in Veritate, 42.
[160][16] Cf. ibid., 54; Second Vatican Ecumenical Council, Dogmatic
Constitution on the Church [161]Lumen Gentium, 1.
[162][17] Encyclical Letter [163]Caritas in Veritate, 33.
[164][18] Ibid., 30.
[165][19] Cf. Apostolic Exhortation [166]Evangelii Gaudium, Ch. 5.
[167][20] Ibid., 30.
[168][21] Cf. [169]Address to the Fifth National Convention of the
Italian Church, Florence, 10 November 2015.
[170][22] Cf. Apostolic Exhortation [171]Evangelii Gaudium, 55.
[172][23] Cf. Encyclical Letter [173]Laudato Si', 139.
[174][24] Ibid., 61.
[175][25] Cf. ibid., 194.
[176][26] Ibid., 53; cf. No. 105.
[177][27] Ibid., 114.
[178][28]  [179]Address to the Community of the Pontifical Gregorian
University, together with Members of the Pontifical Biblical Institute
and the Pontifical Oriental Institute, 10 April 2014: AAS 106 (2014),
374.
[180][29]Cf. Apostolic Exhortation [181]Evangelii Gaudium, 11; 34ff.;
164-165.
[182][30]Cf. ibid ., 165.
[183][31]Cf. SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, Dogmatic Constitution
on the Church [184]Lumen Gentium, 1
[185][32]Apostolic Exhortation [186]Evangelii Gaudium, 111.
[187][33] Cf. Bull of Indiction of the Extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy
[188]Misericordiae Vultus, 11 April 2015.
[189][34]Cf. Apostolic Exhortation [190]Evangelii Gaudium, 87 and 272.
[191][35]Ibid ., 92.
[192][36]Cf. Encyclical Letter [193]Laudato Si', 49.
[194][37] Cf. Apostolic Exhortation [195]Evangelii Gaudium, Ch. 4.
[196][38] PONTIFICAL COUNCIL FOR JUSTICE AND PEACE, Compendium of the
Social Doctrine of the Church, 52; cf. [197]Evangelii Gaudium, 178.
[198][39] Apostolic Exhortation [199]Evangelii Gaudium, 195.
[200][40]Cf. Encyclical Letter [201]Laudato Si', 240.
[202][41]Cf. Apostolic Exhortation [203]Evangelii Gaudium, 239.
[204][42] Encyclical Letter [205]Caritas in Veritate, 4.
[206][43]Foreword, III, cf. SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, Pastoral
Constitution on the Church in the Modern World [207]Gaudium et Spes,
62.
[208][44]Apostolic Exhortation [209]Evangelii Gaudium, 74.
[210][45] No. 31.
[211][46] Cf. Apostolic Exhortation [212]Evangelii Gaudium, 134.
[213][47]  The Idea of a University, Discourse VII, 7.
[214][48] Cf. Delle cinque piaghe della Santa Chiesa, a cura di A.
Valle, (Opere di Antonio Rosmini, vol 56) Città Nuova Ed., Roma 1998
^2, Ch. II, passim.
[215][49] No. 164.
[216][50] Ibid.
[217][51]  [218]Video Message to the International Theological Congress
held at the Pontifical Catholic University of Argentina "Santa Maria de
los Buenos Aires", 1-3 September 2015.
[219][52] Apostolic Exhortation [220]Evangelii Gaudium, 236.
[221][53] JOHN PAUL II, Apostolic Letter [222]Novo Millennio Ineunte, 6
January 2001, 40.
[223][54] Ibid.
[224][55] Apostolic Exhortation [225]Evangelii Gaudium, 116.
[226][56]  Catechesis, 26 April 2006.
[227][57]  [228]Video Message to the International Theological Congress
held at the Pontifical Catholic University of Argentina "Santa Maria de
los Buenos Aires", 1-3 September 2015, with reference to Evangelii
Gaudium, 115.
[229][58]  Letter to the Grand Chancellor of the Pontifical Catholic
University of Argentina for the Hundredth Anniversary of the Faculty of
Theology, 3 March 2015.
[230][59] Apostolic Exhortation [231]Evangelii Gaudium, 227-228.
[232][60] Foreword, III.
[233][61] Apostolic Exhortation [234]Evangelii Gaudium, 133.
[235][62] Cf. Encyclical Letter Laudato Si', 47; Apostolic Exhortation
[236]Evangelii Gaudium, 50.
[237][63] Apostolic Exhortation Evangelii Gaudium, 45.
[238][64] Ibid., 132.
[239][65] No. 201.
[240][66]  [241]Video Message to the International Theological Congress
held at the Pontifical Catholic University of Argentina "Santa Maria de
los Buenos Aires", 1-3 September 2015.
[242][67] Encyclical Letter [243]Laudato Si', 202.
[244][68] Apostolic Exhortation [245]Evangelii Gaudium, 278.
[246][69] Cf. CIC can. 815.
[247][70] Cf. CIC can. 817; CCEO can. 648.
[248][71] Cf. JOHN PAUL II, Apost. Const. Ex Corde Ecclesiae, art. 1, §
2: AAS 82 (1990) 1502.
[249][72] Cf. CIC can. 816, § 1; CCEO can. 649; JOHN PAUL II, Apost.
Const. [250]Pastor Bonus, art. 116, § 2: AAS 80 (1988) 889.
[251][73] Cf. CIC can. 817 and CCEO can. 648.
[252][74] Cf. Motu Proprio Sedula Cura: AAS 63 (1971) 665ff. and also
the Decree of the PONTIFICAL BIBLICAL COMMISSION Ratio Periclitandae
Doctrinae: AAS 67 (1975) 153ff.
[253][75] Cf. CIC can. 816 § 2; CCEO can. 650.
[254][76] Cf. CIC cann. 810 § 1 and 818.
[255][77] Cf. [256]SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, Dogmatic
Constitution on the Church [257]Lumen Gentium, 25 (November 21, 1965):
AAS 57 (1965) 29-31; also the Instruction of the CONGREGATION FOR THE
DOCTRINE OF THE FAITH on the Ecclesial Vocation of the Theologian Donum
Veritatis (May 24, 1990): AAS 82 (1990), 1550-1570.
[258][78] Cf. CIC can. 833, 7°.
[259][79] Cf. CIC can. 152; CCEO can. 942.
[260][80] Cf. [261]SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, Pastoral
Constitution on the Church in the Modern World [262]Gaudium et Spes,
59: AAS 58 (1966) 1080.
[263][81] Cf. CIC can. 816 § 1; CCEO cann. 648-649.
[264][82] Cf. CIC can. 820.
[265][83] Cf. [266]SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, Dogmatic
Constitution on Divine Revelation [267]Dei Verbum 24: AAS 58 (1966)
827.
[268][84] Cf. Instruction of the CONGREGATION FOR THE DOCTRINE OF THE
FAITH on the Ecclesial Vocation of the Theologian Donum Veritatis, May
24, 1990, AAS 82 (1990) 1552.
[269][85] Cf. [270]SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, Declaration on
Christian Education [271]Gravissimum Educationis, 10: AAS 58 (1966)
737; cf. Encyclical Veritatis Splendor (August 6, 1993): AAS 85 (1993)
1133 ff.; Encyclical Fides et Ratio (September 14, 1998): AAS 91 (1999)
5 ff.
[272][86] Cf. [273]SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, Decree on the
Missionary Activity of the Church Ad Gentes, 22: AAS 58 (1966) 973ff.
[274][87] Cf. Directory for the Application of Principles and Norms on
Ecumenism: AAS 85 (1993) 1039 ff.
[275][88] Cf. [276]SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, Decree on
Priestly Formation [277]Optatam Totius, 15: AAS 58 (1966) 722.
[278][89] Cf. [279]SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, Pastoral
Constitution on the Church in the Modern World [280]Gaudium et Spes,
43ff.: AAS 58 (1966) 1061ff.
[281][90] Cf. Apostolic Exhortation Evangelii Nuntiandi, 19-20: AAS 68
(1976) 18f.
[282][91] Cf. Ibid., 18: AAS 68 (1976) 17f., and also Pastoral
Constitution on the Church in the Modern World [283]Gaudium et Spes,
58: AAS 58 (1966) 1079.
[284][92] [285]SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL on Christian Education
[286]Gravissimum Educationis, 10: AAS 58 (1966) 737.
[287][93]AAS 23 (1931) 241.
[288][94]AAS 42 (1950) 387.
[289][95]Declaration on Christian Education [290]Gravissimum
Educationis, 10: AAS 58 (1966) 737.
[291][96]Ibid.
[292][97]Ibid., 11: AAS 58 (1966) 738.
[293][98] Cf. Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World
[294]Gaudium et Spe s, 62: AAS 58 (1966) 1083.
[295][99]Pope John XXIII, Allocution at the opening of the Second
Vatican Ecumenical Council: AAS 54 (1962) 792; cf. also Pastoral
Constitution on the Church in the Modern World [296]Gaudium et Spe s,
62: AAS 58 (1966) 1083.
[297][100]POPE PAUL VI, Letter "Le transfert à Louvain - la - Neuve" to
the Rector of the Catholic University of Louvain, September 13, 1975
(L'Osservatore Romano, September 22-23, 1975). Cf. POPE JOHN PAUL II,
Encyclical Letter [298]Redemptor Hominis, 19: AAS 71 (1979) 305ff.
[299][101] Cf. Declaration on Christian Education [300]Gravissimum
Educationis, 11: AAS 58 (1966) 738.
[301][102] Cf. CIC can. 833, 7°.
[302][103] Cf. Directory for the Application of Principles and Norms on
Ecumenism (1993), nn. 191 ff.: AAS 85 (1993), 1107 ff.
[303][104] Cf. Directory for the Application of Principles and Norms on
Ecumenism (1993), n. 192: AAS 85 (1993), 1107-8.
[304][105] Cf. Directory for the Application of Principles and Norms on
Ecumenism (1993), n. 195: AAS 85 (1993), 1109.
[305][106] Cf. CIC cann. 1732-1739; CCEO cann. 996-1006; CIC can. 1445
§ 2; JOHN PAUL II, Apostolic Constitution [306]Pastor Bonus art. 123,
AAS 80 (1988) 891-892.
[307][107] Cf. SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, Decree on Priestly
Formation [308]Optatam Totius, 13: AAS 58 (1966), 721 and the
Chirograph of POPE PAUL VI Romani Sermonis: AAS 68 (1976), 481ff.
[309][108] Cf. CIC can. 816 § 2; CCEO can. 650.
[310][109]See especially [311]SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL,
Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Revelation [312]Dei Verbum: AAS 58
(1966) 713ff.
[313][110]See especially the Letter of POPE PAUL VI Lumen Ecclesiae,
about St. Thomas Aquinas, of November 20, 1974: AAS 66 (1974) 673ff.
Also see the circular letters of the CONGREGATION FOR CATHOLIC
EDUCATION: on the Theological Formation of Future Priests, February 22,
1976, on Canon Law Studies in Seminaries, March 1, 1975; on
Philosophical Studies, January 20, 1972; Instruction on Liturgical
Formation, June 3, 1979; Instruction on the Means of Social
Communication, March 19, 1986; on the Social Doctrine of the Church,
December 30, 1988; on the Study of the Fathers of the Church, November
10, 1989; and on Education on Matters regarding Marriage and the
Family, March 19, 1995.
[314][111] Cf. CIC can. 251 and [315]SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL,
Decr. [316]Optatam Totius, n. 15.
[317][112]See especially [318]SECOND VATICAN ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, Decree
on Priestly Formation [319]Optatam Totius: AAS 58 (1966) 713ff., and
the Declaration on Christian Education Gravissimum Educationis: AAS 58
(1966) 728ff.
[320][113]See especially the letter of POPE PAUL VI on St. Thomas
Aquinas Lumen Ecclesiae of November 20, 1974: AAS 66 (1974) 673ff.; the
Circular letter of the CONGREGATION FOR CATHOLIC EDUCATION, On the
Study of Philosophy in Seminaries, January 20, 1972; POPE JOHN PAUL II,
Encyclical Letter [321]Fides et Ratio: AAS 91 (1999) 5 ff.; id.,
Encyclical Letter [322]Veritatis Splendor: AAS 85 (1993) 1133 ff. -
insofar as they also concern academic studies.
__________________________________________________________________

© Copyright - Libreria Editrice Vaticana

References

1. http://w2.vatican.va/content/vatican/en.html
2. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
3. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
4. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
5. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
6. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en.rss.xml
7. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
8. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en.html
9. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
10. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.pdf
11. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en.html
12. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions.index.html#apost_constitutions
13. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/de/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
14. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
15. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/es/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
16. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/fr/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
17. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/it/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
18. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/la/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
19. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/pl/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
20. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/pt/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html
21. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn1
22. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn2
23. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn3
24. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn4
25. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn5
26. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn6
27. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn7
28. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn8
29. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn9
30. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn10
31. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn11
32. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn12
33. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn13
34. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn14
35. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn15
36. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn16
37. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn17
38. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn18
39. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn19
40. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn20
41. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn21
42. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn22
43. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn23
44. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn24
45. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn25
46. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn26
47. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn27
48. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn28
49. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn29
50. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn30
51. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn31
52. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn32
53. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn33
54. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn34
55. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn35
56. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn36
57. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn37
58. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn38
59. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn39
60. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn40
61. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn41
62. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn42
63. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn43
64. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn44
65. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn45
66. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn46
67. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn47
68. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn48
69. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn49
70. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn50
71. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn51
72. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn52
73. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn53
74. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn54
75. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn55
76. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn56
77. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn57
78. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn58
79. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn59
80. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn60
81. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn61
82. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn62
83. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn63
84. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn64
85. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn65
86. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn66
87. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn67
88. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn68
89. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn69
90. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn70
91. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn71
92. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn72
93. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn73
94. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn74
95. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn75
96. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn76
97. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn77
98. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn78
99. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn79
100. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn80
101. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn81
102. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn82
103. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn83
104. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn84
105. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn85
106. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn86
107. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn87
108. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn88
109. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn89
110. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn90
111. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn91
112. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn92
113. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn93
114. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn94
115. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn95
116. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn96
117. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn97
118. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn98
119. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn99
120. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn100
121. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn101
122. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn102
123. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn103
124. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn104
125. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn105
126. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn106
127. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn107
128. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn108
129. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn109
130. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn110
131. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn111
132. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn112
133. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftn113
134. http://www.educatio.va/
135. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref1
136. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref2
137. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_cons_19651207_gaudium-et-spes_en.html
138. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref3
139. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref4
140. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/messages/pont-messages/2015/documents/papa-francesco_20150903_videomessaggio-teologia-buenos-aires.html
141. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/messages/pont-messages/2015/documents/papa-francesco_20150903_videomessaggio-teologia-buenos-aires.html
142. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref5
143. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/messages/pont-messages/2015/documents/papa-francesco_20150903_videomessaggio-teologia-buenos-aires.html
144. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref6
145. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/messages/pont-messages/2015/documents/papa-francesco_20150903_videomessaggio-teologia-buenos-aires.html
146. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref7
147. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/messages/pont-messages/2015/documents/papa-francesco_20150903_videomessaggio-teologia-buenos-aires.html
148. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref8
149. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/messages/pont-messages/2015/documents/papa-francesco_20150903_videomessaggio-teologia-buenos-aires.html
150. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref9
151. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/messages/pont-messages/2015/documents/papa-francesco_20150903_videomessaggio-teologia-buenos-aires.html
152. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref10
153. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/messages/pont-messages/2015/documents/papa-francesco_20150903_videomessaggio-teologia-buenos-aires.html
154. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref11
155. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref12
156. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref13
157. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref14
158. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref15
159. http://w2.vatican.va/content/benedict-xvi/en/encyclicals/documents/hf_ben-xvi_enc_20090629_caritas-in-veritate.html
160. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref16
161. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_const_19641121_lumen-gentium_en.html
162. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref17
163. http://w2.vatican.va/content/benedict-xvi/en/encyclicals/documents/hf_ben-xvi_enc_20090629_caritas-in-veritate.html
164. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref18
165. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref19
166. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
167. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref20
168. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref21
169. https://m.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/speeches/2015/november/documents/papa-francesco_20151110_firenze-convegno-chiesa-italiana.html
170. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref22
171. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
172. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref23
173. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/encyclicals/documents/papa-francesco_20150524_enciclica-laudato-si.html
174. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref24
175. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref25
176. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref26
177. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref27
178. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref28
179. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/speeches/2014/april/documents/papa-francesco_20140410_universita-consortium-gregorianum.html
180. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref29
181. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
182. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref30
183. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref31
184. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_const_19641121_lumen-gentium_en.html
185. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref32
186. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
187. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref33
188. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/bulls/documents/papa-francesco_bolla_20150411_misericordiae-vultus.html
189. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref34
190. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
191. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref35
192. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref36
193. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/encyclicals/documents/papa-francesco_20150524_enciclica-laudato-si.html
194. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref37
195. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
196. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref38
197. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
198. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref39
199. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
200. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref40
201. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/encyclicals/documents/papa-francesco_20150524_enciclica-laudato-si.html
202. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref41
203. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
204. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref42
205. http://w2.vatican.va/content/benedict-xvi/en/encyclicals/documents/hf_ben-xvi_enc_20090629_caritas-in-veritate.html
206. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref43
207. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_const_19651207_gaudium-et-spes_en.html
208. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref44
209. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
210. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref45
211. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref46
212. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
213. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref47
214. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref48
215. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref49
216. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref50
217. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref51
218. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/messages/pont-messages/2015/documents/papa-francesco_20150903_videomessaggio-teologia-buenos-aires.html
219. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref52
220. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
221. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref53
222. https://w2.vatican.va/content/john-paul-ii/en/apost_letters/2001/documents/hf_jp-ii_apl_20010106_novo-millennio-ineunte.html
223. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref54
224. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref55
225. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
226. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref56
227. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref57
228. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/messages/pont-messages/2015/documents/papa-francesco_20150903_videomessaggio-teologia-buenos-aires.html
229. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref58
230. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref59
231. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
232. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref60
233. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref61
234. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
235. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref62
236. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
237. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref63
238. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref64
239. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref65
240. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref66
241. https://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/messages/pont-messages/2015/documents/papa-francesco_20150903_videomessaggio-teologia-buenos-aires.html
242. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref67
243. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/encyclicals/documents/papa-francesco_20150524_enciclica-laudato-si.html
244. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref68
245. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_exhortations/documents/papa-francesco_esortazione-ap_20131124_evangelii-gaudium.html
246. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref69
247. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref70
248. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref71
249. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref72
250. http://w2.vatican.va/content/john-paul-ii/en/apost_constitutions/documents/hf_jp-ii_apc_19880628_pastor-bonus-index.html
251. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref73
252. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref74
253. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref75
254. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref76
255. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref77
256. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/index.htm
257. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_const_19641121_lumen-gentium_en.html
258. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref78
259. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref79
260. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref80
261. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/index.htm
262. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_cons_19651207_gaudium-et-spes_en.html
263. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref81
264. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref82
265. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref83
266. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/index.htm
267. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_const_19651118_dei-verbum_en.html
268. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref84
269. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref85
270. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/index.htm
271. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_decl_19651028_gravissimum-educationis_en.html
272. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref86
273. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/index.htm
274. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref87
275. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref88
276. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/index.htm
277. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_decree_19651028_optatam-totius_en.html
278. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref89
279. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/index.htm
280. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_cons_19651207_gaudium-et-spes_en.html
281. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref90
282. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref91
283. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_cons_19651207_gaudium-et-spes_en.html
284. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref92
285. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/index.htm
286. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_decl_19651028_gravissimum-educationis_en.html
287. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref93
288. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref94
289. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref95
290. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_decl_19651028_gravissimum-educationis_en.html
291. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref96
292. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref97
293. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref98
294. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_cons_19651207_gaudium-et-spes_en.html
295. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref99
296. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_cons_19651207_gaudium-et-spes_en.html
297. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref100
298. http://w2.vatican.va/content/john-paul-ii/en/encyclicals/documents/hf_jp-ii_enc_04031979_redemptor-hominis.html
299. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref101
300. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_decl_19651028_gravissimum-educationis_en.html
301. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref102
302. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref103
303. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref104
304. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref105
305. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref106
306. http://w2.vatican.va/content/john-paul-ii/en/apost_constitutions/documents/hf_jp-ii_apc_19880628_pastor-bonus-index.html
307. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref107
308. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_decree_19651028_optatam-totius_en.html
309. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref108
310. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref109
311. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/index.htm
312. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_const_19651118_dei-verbum_en.html
313. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref110
314. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref111
315. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/index.htm
316. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_decree_19651028_optatam-totius_en.html
317. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref112
318. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/index.htm
319. http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/documents/vat-ii_decree_19651028_optatam-totius_en.html
320. http://w2.vatican.va/content/francesco/en/apost_constitutions/documents/papa-francesco_costituzione-ap_20171208_veritatis-gaudium.html#_ftnref113
321. http://w2.vatican.va/content/john-paul-ii/en/encyclicals/documents/hf_jp-ii_enc_14091998_fides-et-ratio.html
322. http://w2.vatican.va/content/john-paul-ii/en/encyclicals/documents/hf_jp-ii_enc_06081993_veritatis-splendor.html
