____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 14 May 2008 - Pseudo-Dionysius, the
Areopagite

[10]Saint Dionysius the Aeropagite In the course of the Catechesis on
the Fathers of the Church, today I would like to speak of a rather
mysterious figure: a sixth-century theologian whose name is unknown and
who wrote under the pseudonym of Dionysius the Areopagite. With this
pseudonym he was alluding to the passage of Scripture we have just
heard, the event recounted by Saint Luke in chapter 17 of the Acts of
the Apostles where he tells how Paul preached in Athens at the
Areopagus to an elite group of the important Greek intellectual world.
In the end, the majority of his listeners proved not to be interested
and went away jeering at him. Yet some, Saint Luke says a few,
approached Paul and opened themselves to the faith. The Evangelist
gives us two names: Dionysius a member of the Areopagus and a woman
named Damaris.

If five centuries later the author of these books chose the pseudonym
"Dionysius the Areopagite", it means that his intention was to put
Greek wisdom at the service of the Gospel, to foster the encounter of
Greek culture and intelligence with the proclamation of Christ; he
wanted to do what this Dionysius had intended, that is, to make Greek
thought converge with Saint Paul's proclamation; being a Greek, he
wanted to become a disciple of Saint Paul, hence a disciple of Christ.

Why did he hide his name and choose this pseudonym? One part of the
answer I have already given: he wanted, precisely, to express this
fundamental intention of his thought. But there are two hypotheses
concerning this anonymity and pseudonym. The first hypothesis says that
it was a deliberate falsification by which, in dating his works back to
the first century, to the time of Saint Paul, he wished to give his
literary opus, a quasi apostolic authority. But there is another better
hypothesis than this, which seems to me barely credible: namely that he
himself desired to make an act of humility; he did not want to glorify
his own name, he did not want to build a monument to himself with his
work but rather truly to serve the Gospel, to create an ecclesial
theology, neither individual nor based on himself. Actually, he
succeeded in elaborating a theology which, of course, we can date to
the sixth century but cannot attribute to any of the figures of that
period: it is a somewhat "de-individualized" theology, that is, a
theology which expresses a common thought and language. It was a period
of fierce polemics following the Council of Chalcedon; indeed he said
in his Seventh Epistle: "I do not wish to spark polemics; I simply
speak of the truth, I seek the truth". And the light of truth by itself
causes errors to fall away and makes what is good shine forth. And with
this principle he purified Greek thought and related it to the Gospel.
This principle, which he affirms in his seventh letter, is also the
expression of a true spirit of dialogue: it is not about seeking the
things that separate, but seeking the truth in Truth itself. This then
radiates and causes errors to fade away.

Therefore, although this author's theology is, so to speak,
"supra-personal", truly ecclesial, we can place it in the sixth
century. Why? The Greek spirit, which he placed at the service of the
Gospel, he encountered in the books of Proclus, who died in Athens in
485. This author belonged to late Platonism, a current of thought which
had transformed Plato's philosophy into a sort of religion, whose
ultimate purpose was to create a great apologetic for Greek polytheism
and return, following Christianity's success, to the ancient Greek
religion. He wanted to demonstrate that in reality, the divinities were
the active forces in the cosmos. The consequence to be drawn from this
was that polytheism must be considered truer than monotheism with its
single Creator God. What Proclus was demonstrating was a great cosmic
system of divinity, of mysterious forces, through which, in this
deified cosmos, man could find access to the divinity. However, he made
a distinction between paths for the simple, who were incapable of
rising to the heights of truth - certain rites could suffice for them -
and paths for the wise who were to purify themselves to arrive at the
pure light.

As can be seen, this thought is profoundly anti-Christian. It is a late
reaction to the triumph of Christianity, an anti-Christian use of
Plato, whereas a Christian interpretation of the great philosopher was
already in course. It is interesting that this Pseudo-Dionysius dared
to avail himself of this very thought to demonstrate the truth of
Christ; to transform this polytheistic universe into a cosmos created
by God, into the harmony of God's cosmos, where every force is praise
of God, and to show this great harmony, this symphony of the cosmos
that goes from the Seraphim to the Angels and Archangels, to man and to
all the creatures which, together, reflect God's beauty and are praise
of God. He thus transformed the polytheistic image into a praise of the
Creator and his creature. In this way we can discover the essential
characteristics of his thought: first and foremost, it is cosmic
praise. All Creation speaks of God and is praise of God. Since the
creature is praise of God, Pseudo-Dionysius' theology became a
liturgical theology: God is found above all in praising him, not only
in reflection; and the liturgy is not something made by us, something
invented in order to have a religious experience for a certain period
of time; it is singing with the choir of creatures and entering into
cosmic reality itself. And in this very way the liturgy, apparently
only ecclesiastical, becomes expansive and great, it becomes our union
with the language of all creatures. He says: God cannot be spoken of in
an abstract way; speaking of God is always - he says using a Greek word
- a "hymnein", singing for God with the great hymn of the creatures
which is reflected and made concrete in liturgical praise. Yet,
although his theology is cosmic, ecclesial and liturgical, it is also
profoundly personal. He created the first great mystical theology.
Indeed, with him the word "mystic" acquires a new meaning. Until then
for Christians such a word was equivalent to the word "sacramental",
that is, what pertains to the "mysterion", to the sacrament. With him
the word "mystic" becomes more personal, more intimate: it expresses
the soul's journey toward God. And how can God be found? Here we note
once again an important element in his dialogue between Greek
philosophy and Christianity, and, in particular biblical faith.
Apparently what Plato says and what the great philosophy on God says is
far loftier, far truer; the Bible appears somewhat "barbaric", simple
or pre-critical one might say today; but he remarks that precisely this
is necessary, so that in this way we can understand that the loftiest
concepts on God never reach his true grandeur: they always fall short
of it. In fact these images enable us to understand that God is above
every concept; in the simplicity of the images we find more truth than
in great concepts. The Face of God is our inability to express truly
what he is. In this way one speaks - and Pseudo-Dionysius himself
speaks - of a "negative theology". It is easier for us to say what God
is not rather than to say what he truly is. Only through these images
can we intuit his true Face, moreover this Face of God is very
concrete: it is Jesus Christ.

And although Dionysius shows us, following Proclus, the harmony of the
heavenly choirs in such a way that it seems that they all depend on one
another, it is true that on our journey toward God we are still very
far from him. Pseudo-Dionysius shows that in the end the journey to God
is God himself, who makes himself close to us in Jesus Christ. Thus, a
great and mysterious theology also becomes very concrete, both in the
interpretation of the liturgy and in the discourse on Jesus Christ:
with all this, Dionysius the Areopagite exerted a strong influence on
all medieval theology and on all mystical theology, both in the East
and in the West. He was virtually rediscovered in the 13th century,
especially by Saint Bonaventure, the great Franciscan theologian who in
this mystical theology found the conceptual instrument for
reinterpreting the heritage - so simple and profound - of Saint
Francis. Together with Dionysius, the "Poverello" tells us that in the
end love sees more than reason. Where the light of love shines the
shadows of reason are dispelled; love sees, love is an eye and
experience gives us more than reflection. Bonaventure saw in Saint
Francis what this experience is: it is the experience of a very humble,
very realistic journey, day by day, it is walking with Christ,
accepting his Cross. In this poverty and in this humility, in the
humility that is also lived in ecclesiality, is an experience of God
which is loftier than that attained by reflection. In it we really
touch God's Heart.

Today Dionysius the Areopagite has a new relevance: he appears as a
great mediator in the modern dialogue between Christianity and the
mystical theologies of Asia, whose characteristic feature is the
conviction that it is impossible to say who God is, that only indirect
things can be said about him; that God can only be spoken of with the
"not", and that it is only possible to reach him by entering into this
indirect experience of "not". And here a similarity can be seen between
the thought of the Areopagite and that of Asian religions; he can be a
mediator today as he was between the Greek spirit and the Gospel.

In this context it can be seen that dialogue does not accept
superficiality. It is precisely when one enters into the depths of the
encounter with Christ that an ample space for dialogue also opens. When
one encounters the light of truth, one realizes that it is a light for
everyone; polemics disappear and it is possible to understand one
another, or at least to speak to one another, to come closer. The path
of dialogue consists precisely in being close to God in Christ, in a
deep encounter with him, in the experience of the truth which opens us
to the light and helps us reach out to others - with the light of
truth, the light of love. And in the end, he tells us: take the path of
experience, the humble experience of faith, every day. Then the heart
is enlarged and can see and also illumine reason so that it perceives
God's beauty. Let us pray to the Lord to help us today too to place the
wisdom of our day at the service of the Gospel, discovering ever anew
the beauty of faith, the encounter with God in Christ.

