____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 1 August 2007 - Saint Basil the
Great, part 2

[10]detail of an illustration of Saint Basil the Caesarea, by Francesco
Bartolozzi, 19th century; swiped from Wikimedia Commons After this
three-week break, we are continuing with our Wednesday meetings. Today,
I would simply like to resume my last Catechesis, whose subject was the
life and writings of Saint Basil, a Bishop in present-day Turkey, in
Asia Minor, in the fourth century A.D. The life and works of this great
Saint are full of ideas for reflection and teachings that are also
relevant for us today.

First of all is the reference to God's mystery, which is still the most
meaningful and vital reference for human beings. The Father is "the
principal of all things and the cause of being of all that exists, the
root of the living" (Hom. 15, 2 de fide: PG 31, 465c); above all, he is
"the Father of Our Lord Jesus Christ" (Anaphora Sancti Basilii).
Ascending to God through his creatures, we "become aware of his
goodness and wisdom" (Basil, Adversus Eunomium 1, 14: PG 29, 544b).

The Son is the "image of the Father's goodness and seal in the same
form" (cf. Anaphora Sancti Basilii). With his obedience and his
Passion, the Incarnate Word carried out his mission as Redeemer of man
(cf. Basil, In Psalmum 48, 8; PG 29, 452ab; cf. also De Baptismo 1, 2:
SC 357, 158).

Lastly, he spoke fully of the Holy Spirit, to whom he dedicated a whole
book. He reveals to us that the Spirit enlivens the Church, fills her
with his gifts and sanctifies her.

The resplendent light of the divine mystery is reflected in man, the
image of God, and exalts his dignity. Looking at Christ, one fully
understands human dignity.

Basil exclaims: "[Man], be mindful of your greatness, remembering the
price paid for you: look at the price of your redemption and comprehend
your dignity!" (In Psalmum 48, 8: PG 29, 452b). Christians in
particular, conforming their lives to the Gospel, recognize that all
people are brothers and sisters; that life is a stewardship of the
goods received from God, which is why each one is responsible for the
other, and whoever is rich must be as it were an "executor of the
orders of God the Benefactor" (Hom 6 de avaritia: PG 32, 1181-1196). We
must all help one another and cooperate as members of one body (Ep 203,
3).

And on this point, he used courageous, strong words in his homilies.
Indeed, anyone who desires to love his neighbour as himself, in
accordance with God's commandment, "must possess no more than his
neighbour" (Hom. in divites: PG 31, 281b).

In times of famine and disaster, the holy Bishop exhorted the faithful
with passionate words "not to be more cruel than beasts... by taking
over what people possess in common or by grabbing what belongs to all
(Hom. tempore famis: PG 31, 325a).

Basil's profound thought stands out in this evocative sentence: "All
the destitute look to our hands just as we look to those of God when we
are in need".

Therefore, Gregory of Nazianzus' praise after Basil's death was
well-deserved. He said: "Basil convinces us that since we are human
beings, we must neither despise men nor offend Christ, the common Head
of all, with our inhuman behaviour towards people; rather, we ourselves
must benefit by learning from the misfortunes of others and must lend
God our compassion, for we are in need of mercy" (Gregory Nazianzus,
Orationes 43, 63; PG 36, 580b).

These words are very timely. We see that Saint Basil is truly one of
the Fathers of the Church's social doctrine.

Furthermore, Basil reminds us that to keep alive our love for God and
for men, we need the Eucharist, the appropriate food for the baptized,
which can nourish the new energies that derive from Baptism (cf. De
Baptismo 1, 3: SC 357, 192).

It is a cause of immense joy to be able to take part in the Eucharist
(cf. Moralia 21, 3: PG 31, 741a), instituted "to preserve unceasingly
the memory of the One who died and rose for us" (Moralia 80, 22: PG 31,
869b).

The Eucharist, an immense gift of God, preserves in each one of us the
memory of the baptismal seal and makes it possible to live the grace of
Baptism to the full and in fidelity.

For this reason, the holy Bishop recommended frequent, even daily,
Communion: "Communicating even daily, receiving the Holy Body and Blood
of Christ, is good and useful; for he said clearly: "He who eats my
flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life' (Jn 6: 54). So who would
doubt that communicating continuously with life were not living in
fullness?" (Ep. 93: PG 32, 484b).

The Eucharist, in a word, is necessary for us if we are to welcome
within us true life, eternal life (cf. Moralia 21, 1: PG 31, 737c).

Finally, Basil was of course also concerned with that chosen portion of
the People of God, the youth, society's future. He addressed a
Discourse to them on how to benefit from the pagan culture of that
time.

He recognized with great balance and openness that examples of virtue
can be found in classical Greek and Latin literature. Such examples of
upright living can be helpful to young Christians in search of the
truth and the correct way of living (cf. Ad Adolescentes 3).

Therefore, one must take from the texts by classical authors what is
suitable and conforms with the truth: thus, with a critical and open
approach - it is a question of true and proper "discernment"- young
people grow in freedom.

With the famous image of bees that gather from flowers only what they
need to make honey, Basil recommends: "Just as bees can take nectar
from flowers, unlike other animals which limit themselves to enjoying
their scent and colour, so also from these writings... one can draw
some benefit for the spirit. We must use these books, following in all
things the example of bees. They do not visit every flower without
distinction, nor seek to remove all the nectar from the flowers on
which they alight, but only draw from them what they need to make
honey, and leave the rest. And if we are wise, we will take from those
writings what is appropriate for us, and conforms to the truth,
ignoring the rest" (Ad Adolescentes 4).

Basil recommended above all that young people grow in virtue, in the
right way of living: "While the other goods... pass from one to the
other as in playing dice, virtue alone is an inalienable good and
endures throughout life and after death" (Ad Adolescentes 5).

Dear brothers and sisters, I think one can say that this Father from
long ago also speaks to us and tells us important things.

In the first place, attentive, critical and creative participation in
today's culture.

Then, social responsibility: this is an age in which, in a globalized
world, even people who are physically distant are really our
neighbours; therefore, friendship with Christ, the God with the human
face.

And, lastly, knowledge and recognition of God the Creator, the Father
of us all: only if we are open to this God, the common Father, can we
build a more just and fraternal world.

