____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 16 June 2010 - Saint Thomas
Aquinas, part 2

[10]photograph of a Saint Thomas Aquinas roundel, Convento de Las
Duenas, Salamanca, Spain; swiped with permission from the flickr
account of Father Lawrence Lew, OP Today I would like to continue the
presentation of Saint Thomas Aquinas, a theologian of such value that
the study of his thought was explicitly recommended by the Second
Vatican Council in two documents, the Decree Optatam totius on the
Training of Priests, and the Declaration Gravissimum Educationis, which
addresses Christian Education. Indeed, already in 1880 Pope Leo XIII,
who held Saint Thomas in high esteem as a guide and encouraged
Thomistic studies, chose to declare him Patron of Catholic Schools and
Universities.

The main reason for this appreciation is not only explained by the
content of his teaching but also by the method he used, especially his
new synthesis and distinction between philosophy and theology. The
Fathers of the Church were confronted by different philosophies of a
Platonic type in which a complete vision of the world and of life was
presented, including the subject of God and of religion. In comparison
with these philosophies they themselves had worked out a complete
vision of reality, starting with faith and using elements of Platonism
to respond to the essential questions of men and women. They called
this vision, based on biblical revelation and formulated with a correct
Platonism in the light of faith: "our philosophy". The word
"philosophy" was not, therefore, an expression of a purely rational
system and, as such, distinct from faith but rather indicated a
comprehensive vision of reality, constructed in the light of faith but
used and conceived of by reason; a vision that naturally exceeded the
capacities proper to reason but as such also fulfilled it. For Saint
Thomas the encounter with the pre-Christian philosophy of Aristotle
(who died in about 322 b.c.) opened up a new perspective. Aristotelian
philosophy was obviously a philosophy worked out without the knowledge
of the Old and New Testaments, an explanation of the world without
revelation through reason alone. And this consequent rationality was
convincing. Thus the old form of the Fathers' "our philosophy" no
longer worked. The relationship between philosophy and theology,
between faith and reason, needed to be rethought. A "philosophy"
existed that was complete and convincing in itself, a rationality that
preceded the faith, followed by "theology", a form of thinking with the
faith and in the faith. The pressing question was this: are the world
of rationality, philosophy conceived of without Christ, and the world
of faith compatible? Or are they mutually exclusive? Elements that
affirmed the incompatibility of these two worlds were not lacking, but
Saint Thomas was firmly convinced of their compatibility indeed that
philosophy worked out without the knowledge of Christ was awaiting, as
it were, the light of Jesus to be complete. This was the great
"surprise" of Saint Thomas that determined the path he took as a
thinker. Showing this independence of philosophy and theology and, at
the same time, their reciprocal relationality was the historic mission
of the great teacher. And thus it can be understood that in the 19th
century, when the incompatibility of modern reason and faith was
strongly declared, Pope Leo XIII pointed to Saint Thomas as a guide in
the dialogue between them. In his theological work, Saint Thomas
supposes and concretizes this relationality. Faith consolidates,
integrates and illumines the heritage of truth that human reason
acquires. The trust with which Saint Thomas endows these two
instruments of knowledge faith and reason may be traced back to the
conviction that both stem from the one source of all truth, the divine
Logos, which is active in both contexts, that of Creation and that of
redemption.

Together with the agreement between reason and faith, we must recognize
on the other hand that they avail themselves of different cognitive
procedures. Reason receives a truth by virtue of its intrinsic
evidence, mediated or unmediated; faith, on the contrary, accepts a
truth on the basis of the authority of the Word of God that is
revealed. Saint Thomas writes at the beginning of his Summa Theologiae:
"We must bear in mind that there are two kinds of sciences. There are
some which proceed from a principle known by the natural light of the
intelligence, such as arithmetic and geometry and the like. There are
some which proceed from principles known by the light of a higher
science: thus the science of perspective proceeds from principles
established by geometry, and music from principles established by
arithmetic. So it is that sacred doctrine is a science, because it
proceeds from principles established by the light of a higher science,
namely, the science of God and the blessed" (ia, q. 1, a.2).

This distinction guarantees the autonomy of both the human and the
theological sciences. However, it is not equivalent to separation but,
rather, implies a reciprocal and advantageous collaboration. Faith, in
fact, protects reason from any temptation to distrust its own
abilities, stimulates it to be open to ever broader horizons, keeps
alive in it the search for foundations and, when reason itself is
applied to the supernatural sphere of the relationship between God and
man, faith enriches his work. According to Saint Thomas, for example,
human reason can certainly reach the affirmation of the existence of
one God, but only faith, which receives the divine Revelation, is able
to draw from the mystery of the Love of the Triune God.

Moreover, it is not only faith that helps reason. Reason too, with its
own means can do something important for faith, making it a threefold
service which Saint Thomas sums up in the preface to his commentary on
the De Trinitate of Boethius: "demonstrating those truths that are
preambles of the faith; giving a clearer notion, by certain
similitudes, of the truths of the faith; resisting those who speak
against the faith, either by showing that their statements are false,
or by showing that they are not necessarily true" (q. 2, a.3). The
entire history of theology is basically the exercise of this task of
the mind which shows the intelligibility of faith, its articulation and
inner harmony, its reasonableness and its ability to further human
good. The correctness of theological reasoning and its real cognitive
meaning is based on the value of theological language which, in Saint
Thomas' opinion, is principally an analogical language. The distance
between God, the Creator, and the being of his creatures is infinite;
dissimilitude is ever greater than similitude (cf. DS 806).
Nevertheless in the whole difference between Creator and creatures an
analogy exists between the created being and the being of the Creator,
which enables us to speak about God with human words.

Saint Thomas not only based the doctrine of analogy on exquisitely
philosophical argumentation but also on the fact that with the
Revelation God himself spoke to us and therefore authorized us to speak
of him. I consider it important to recall this doctrine. In fact, it
helps us get the better of certain objections of contemporary atheism
which denies that religious language is provided with an objective
meaning and instead maintains that it has solely a subjective or merely
emotional value. This objection derives from the fact that positivist
thought is convinced that man does not know being but solely the
functions of reality that can be experienced. With Saint Thomas and
with the great philosophical tradition we are convinced that, in
reality, man does not only know the functions, the object of the
natural sciences, but also knows something of being itself for example,
he knows the person, the You of the other, and not only the physical
and biological aspect of his being.

In the light of this teaching of Saint Thomas theology says that
however limited it may be, religious language is endowed with sense
because we touch being like an arrow aimed at the reality it signifies.
This fundamental agreement between human reason and Christian faith is
recognized in another basic principle of Aquinas' thought. Divine Grace
does not annihilate but presupposes and perfects human nature. The
latter, in fact, even after sin, is not completely corrupt but wounded
and weakened. Grace, lavished upon us by God and communicated through
the Mystery of the Incarnate Word, is an absolutely free gift with
which nature is healed, strengthened and assisted in pursuing the
innate desire for happiness in the heart of every man and of every
woman. All the faculties of the human being are purified, transformed
and uplifted by divine Grace.

An important application of this relationship between nature and Grace
is recognized in the moral theology of Saint Thomas Aquinas, which
proves to be of great timeliness. At the centre of his teaching in this
field, he places the new law which is the law of the Holy Spirit. With
a profoundly evangelical gaze he insists on the fact that this law is
the Grace of the Holy Spirit given to all who believe in Christ. The
written and oral teaching of the doctrinal and moral truths transmitted
by the Church is united to this Grace. Saint Thomas, emphasizing the
fundamental role in moral life of the action of the Holy Spirit, of
Grace, from which flow the theological and moral virtues, makes us
understand that all Christians can attain the lofty perspectives of the
"Sermon on the Mount", if they live an authentic relationship of faith
in Christ, if they are open to the action of his Holy Spirit. However,
Aquinas adds, "Although Grace is more efficacious than nature, yet
nature is more essential to man, and therefore more enduring" (Summa
Theologiae, Ia-IIae, q. 94, a. 6, ad 2), which is why, in the Christian
moral perspective, there is a place for reason which is capable of
discerning natural moral law. Reason can recognize this by considering
what it is good to do and what it is good to avoid in order to achieve
that felicity which everyone has at heart, which also implies a
responsibility towards others and, therefore, the search for the common
good. In other words, the human, theological and moral virtues are
rooted in human nature. Divine Grace accompanies, sustains and impels
ethical commitment but, according to Saint Thomas, all human beings,
believers and non-believers alike, are called to recognize the needs of
human nature expressed in natural law and to draw inspiration from it
in the formulation of positive laws, namely those issued by the civil
and political authorities to regulate human coexistence.

When natural law and the responsibility it entails are denied this
dramatically paves the way to ethical relativism at the individual
level and to totalitarianism of the State at the political level. The
defence of universal human rights and the affirmation of the absolute
value of the person's dignity postulate a foundation. Does not natural
law constitute this foundation, with the non-negotiable values that it
indicates? Venerable John Paul II wrote in his Encyclical Evangelium
Vitae words that are still very up to date: "It is therefore urgently
necessary, for the future of society and the development of a sound
democracy, to rediscover those essential and innate human and moral
values which flow from the very truth of the human being and express
and safeguard the dignity of the person: values which no individual, no
majority and no State can ever create, modify or destroy, but must only
acknowledge, respect and promote" (n. 71).

To conclude, Thomas presents to us a broad and confident concept of
human reason: broad because it is not limited to the spaces of the
so-called "empirical-scientific" reason, but open to the whole being
and thus also to the fundamental and inalienable questions of human
life; and confident because human reason, especially if it accepts the
inspirations of Christian faith, is a promoter of a civilization that
recognizes the dignity of the person, the intangibility of his rights
and the cogency of his or her duties. It is not surprising that the
doctrine on the dignity of the person, fundamental for the recognition
of the inviolability of human rights, developed in schools of thought
that accepted the legacy of Saint Thomas Aquinas, who had a very lofty
conception of the human creature. He defined it, with his rigorously
philosophical language, as "what is most perfect to be found in all
nature - that is, a subsistent individual of a rational nature" (Summa
Theologiae, 1a, q. 29, a. 3).

The depth of Saint Thomas Aquinas' thought let us never forget it flows
from his living faith and fervent piety, which he expressed in inspired
prayers such as this one in which he asks God: "Grant me, O Lord my
God, a mind to know you, a heart to seek you, wisdom to find you,
conduct pleasing to you, faithful perseverance in waiting for you, and
a hope of finally embracing you".

