____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 12 March 2008 - Boethius and
Cassiodorus

Today, I would like to talk about two ecclesiastical writers, Boethius
and Cassiodorus, who lived in some of the most turbulent years in the
Christian West and in the Italian peninsula in particular. Odoacer,
King of the Rugians, a Germanic race, had rebelled, putting an end to
the Western Roman Empire (476 A.D.), but it was not long before he was
killed by Theodoric's Ostrogoths who had controlled the Italian
Peninsula for some decades. Boethius, born in Rome in about 480 from
the noble Anicius lineage, entered public life when he was still young
and by age 25 was already a senator. Faithful to his family's
tradition, he devoted himself to politics, convinced that it would be
possible to temper the fundamental structure of Roman society with the
values of the new peoples. And in this new time of cultural encounter
he considered it his role to reconcile and bring together these two
cultures, the classical Roman and the nascent Ostrogoth culture. Thus,
he was also politically active under Theodoric, who at the outset held
him in high esteem. In spite of this public activity, Boethius did not
neglect his studies and dedicated himself in particular to acquiring a
deep knowledge of philosophical and religious subjects. However, he
also wrote manuals on arithmetic, geometry, music and astronomy, all
with the intention of passing on the great Greco-Roman culture to the
new generations, to the new times. In this context, in his commitment
to fostering the encounter of cultures, he used the categories of Greek
philosophy to present the Christian faith, here too seeking a synthesis
between the Hellenistic-Roman heritage and the Gospel message. For this
very reason Boethius was described as the last representative of
ancient Roman culture and the first of the Medieval intellectuals.

His most famous work is undoubtedly De Consolatione Philosophiae, which
he wrote in prison to help explain his unjust detention. In fact, he
had been accused of plotting against King Theodoric for having taken
the side of his friend Senator Albinus in a court case. But this was a
pretext. Actually, Theodoric, an Arian and a barbarian, suspected that
Boethius was sympathizing with the Byzantine Emperor Justinian.
Boethius was tried and sentenced to death. He was executed on 23
October 524, when he was only 44 years old. It is precisely because of
his tragic end that he can also speak from the heart of his own
experience to contemporary man, and especially to the multitudes who
suffer the same fate because of the injustice inherent in so much of
"human justice". Through this work, De Consolatione Philosophiae, he
sought consolation, enlightenment and wisdom in prison. And he said
that precisely in this situation he knew how to distinguish between
apparent goods, which disappear in prison, and true goods such as
genuine friendship, which even in prison do not disappear. The loftiest
good is God: Boethius - and he teaches us this - learned not to sink
into a fatalism that extinguishes hope. He teaches us that it is not
the event but Providence that governs and Providence has a face. It is
possible to speak to Providence because Providence is God. Thus, even
in prison, he was left with the possibility of prayer, of dialogue with
the One who saves us. At the same time, even in this situation he
retained his sense of the beauty of culture and remembered the teaching
of the great ancient Greek and Roman philosophers such as Plato,
Aristotle - he had begun to translate these Greeks into Latin - Cicero,
Seneca, and also poets such as Tibullus and Virgil.

Boethius held that philosophy, in the sense of the quest for true
wisdom, was the true medicine of the soul (Bk I). On the other hand,
man can only experience authentic happiness within his own interiority
(Bk II). Boethius thus succeeded in finding meaning by thinking of his
own personal tragedy in the light of a sapiential text of the Old
Testament (Wis 7: 30-8: 1) which he cites: "Against wisdom evil does
not prevail. She reaches mightily from one end of the earth to the
other, and she orders all things well" (Bk III, 12: PL 63, col. 780).
The so-called prosperity of the wicked is therefore proven to be false
(Bk IV), and the providential nature of adversa fortuna is highlighted.
Life's difficulties not only reveal how transient and short-lived life
is, but are even shown to serve for identifying and preserving
authentic relations among human beings. Adversa fortuna, in fact, makes
it possible to discern false friends from true and makes one realize
that nothing is more precious to the human being than a true
friendship. The fatalistic acceptance of a condition of suffering is
nothing short of perilous, the believer Boethius added, because "it
eliminates at its roots the very possibility of prayer and of
theological hope, which form the basis of man's relationship with God"
(Bk V, 3: PL 63, col. 842).

The final peroration of De Consolatione Philosophiae can be considered
a synthesis of the entire teaching that Boethius addressed to himself
and all who might find themselves in his same conditions. Thus, in
prison he wrote: "So combat vices, dedicate yourselves to a virtuous
life oriented by hope, which draws the heart upwards until it reaches
Heaven with prayers nourished by humility. Should you refuse to lie,
the imposition you have suffered can change into the enormous advantage
of always having before your eyes the supreme Judge, who sees and knows
how things truly are" (Bk V, 6: PL 63, col. 862). Every prisoner,
regardless of the reason why he ended up in prison, senses how
burdensome this particular human condition is, especially when it is
brutalized, as it was for Boethius, by recourse to torture. Then
particularly absurd is the condition of those like Boethius - whom the
city of Pavia recognizes and celebrates in the liturgy as a martyr of
the faith - who are tortured to death for no other reason than their
own ideals and political and religious convictions. Boethius, the
symbol of an immense number of people unjustly imprisoned in all ages
and on all latitudes, is in fact an objective entrance way that gives
access to contemplation of the mysterious Crucified One of Golgotha.

Marcus Aurelius Cassiodorus was a contemporary of Boethius, a Calabrian
born in Scyllacium in about 485 A.D. and who died at a very advanced
age in Vivarium in 580. Cassiodorus, a man with a privileged social
status, likewise devoted himself to political life and cultural
commitment as few others in the Roman West of his time. Perhaps the
only men who could stand on an equal footing in this twofold interest
were Boethius, whom we have mentioned, and Gregory the Great, the
future Pope of Rome (590-604). Aware of the need to prevent all the
human and humanist patrimony accumulated in the golden age of the Roman
Empire from vanishing into oblivion, Cassiodorus collaborated
generously, and with the highest degree of political responsibility,
with the new peoples who had crossed the boundaries of the Empire and
settled in Italy. He too was a model of cultural encounter, of
dialogue, of reconciliation. Historical events did not permit him to
make his political and cultural dreams come true; he wanted to create a
synthesis between the Roman and Christian traditions of Italy and the
new culture of the Goths. These same events, however, convinced him of
the providentiality of the monastic movement that was putting down
roots in Christian lands. He decided to support it and gave it all his
material wealth and spiritual energy.

He conceived the idea of entrusting to the monks the task of
recovering, preserving and transmitting to those to come the immense
cultural patrimony of the ancients so that it would not be lost. For
this reason he founded Vivarium, a coenobitic community in which
everything was organized in such a way that the monk's intellectual
work was esteemed as precious and indispensable. He arranged that even
those monks who had no academic training must not be involved solely in
physical labour and farming but also in transcribing manuscripts and
thus helping to transmit the great culture to future generations. And
this was by no means at the expense of monastic and Christian spiritual
dedication or of charitable activity for the poor. In his teaching,
expounded in various works but especially in the Treatise De Anima and
in the Institutiones Divinarum Litterarum (cf. PL 69, col. 1108),
prayer nourished by Sacred Scripture and particularly by assiduous
recourse to the Psalms (cf. PL 69, col. 1149) always has a central
place as the essential sustenance for all. Thus, for example, this most
learned Calabrian introduced his Expositio in Psalterium: "Having
rejected and abandoned in Ravenna the demands of a political career
marked by the disgusting taste of worldly concerns, having enjoyed the
Psalter, a book that came from Heaven, as true honey of the soul, I
dived into it avidly, thirsting to examine it without a pause, to steep
myself in that salutary sweetness, having had enough of the countless
disappointments of active life" (PL 70, col. 10).

The search for God, the aspiration to contemplate him, Cassiodorus
notes, continues to be the permanent goal of monastic life (cf. PL 69,
col. 1107). Nonetheless, he adds that with the help of divine grace
(cf. PL 69, col. 1131, 1142), greater profit can be attained from the
revealed Word with the use of scientific discoveries and the "profane"
cultural means that were possessed in the past by the Greeks and Romans
(cf. PL 69, col. 1140). Personally, Cassiodorus dedicated himself to
philosophical, theological and exegetical studies without any special
creativity, but was attentive to the insights he considered valid in
others. He read Jerome and Augustine in particular with respect and
devotion. Of the latter he said: "In Augustine there is such a great
wealth of writings that it seems to me impossible to find anything that
has not already been abundantly treated by him" (cf. PL 70, col. 10).
Citing Jerome, on the other hand, he urged the monks of Vivarium: "It
is not only those who fight to the point of bloodshed or who live in
virginity who win the palm of victory but also all who, with God's
help, triumph over physical vices and preserve their upright faith. But
in order that you may always, with God's help, more easily overcome the
world's pressures and enticements while remaining in it as pilgrims
constantly journeying forward, seek first to guarantee for yourselves
the salutary help suggested by the first Psalm which recommends
meditation night and day on the law of the Lord. Indeed, the enemy will
not find any gap through which to assault you if all your attention is
taken up by Christ" (De Institutione Divinarum Scripturarum, 32: PL 70,
col. 1147). This is a recommendation we can also accept as valid. In
fact, we live in a time of intercultural encounter, of the danger of
violence that destroys cultures, and of the necessary commitment to
pass on important values and to teach the new generations the path of
reconciliation and peace. We find this path by turning to the God with
the human Face, the God who revealed himself to us in Christ.

