____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 13 August 2008 - Saint Edith Stein
and Saint Maximilian Mary Kolbe

[10]photograph of Saint Teresa Benedicta of the Cross, date unknown,
photographer unknown [11]Saint Maximilian Kolde, 1940 Having returned
from Bressanone where I was able to spend a restful period, I am glad
to meet with you and greet you, dear inhabitants of Castel Gandolfo,
and you, pilgrims who have come to visit me today. I would like once
again to thank all those who welcomed me and looked after me during my
stay in the mountains. They were days of serene relaxation during which
I continuously commended to the Lord all those who entrust themselves
to my prayer. Those who write to me asking me to pray for them are
truly numerous. They tell me of their joys but also their worries,
their plans and their family and work problems, the expectations and
hopes that they carry in their hearts, together with their
apprehensions connected with the uncertainties that humanity is living
at the present time. I can assure them that I remember each and every
one, especially during the daily celebration of Holy Mass and the
recitation of the Rosary. I know well that the principal service I can
render to the Church and to humanity is, precisely, prayer, for in
praying I confidently place in the Lord's hands the ministry that he
himself has entrusted to me, together with the future of the entire
ecclesial and civil communities.

Those who pray never lose hope, even when they find themselves in a
difficult and even humanly hopeless plight. Sacred Scripture teaches us
this and Church history bears witness to this.

In fact, how many examples we could cite of situations in which it was
precisely prayer that sustained the journey of Saints and of the
Christian people! Among the testimonies of our epoch I would like to
mention the examples of two Saints whom we are commemorating in these
days: Teresa Benedicta of the Cross, Edith Stein, whose feast we
celebrated on 9 August, and Maximilian Mary Kolbe, whom we will
commemorate tomorrow, on 14 August, the eve of the Solemnity of the
Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Both ended their earthly life
with martyrdom in the concentration camp of Auschwitz. Their lives
might seem to have been a defeat, but it is precisely in their
martyrdom that the brightness of Love which dispels the gloom of
selfishness and hatred shines forth. The following words are attributed
to Saint Maximilian Kolbe, who is said to have spoken them when the
Nazi persecution was raging: "Hatred is not a creative force: only love
is creative". And heroic proof of his love was the generous offering he
made of himself in exchange for a fellow prisoner, an offer that
culminated in his death in the starvation bunker on 14 August 1941.

On 6 August the following year, three days before her tragic end, Edith
Stein approaching some Sisters in the monastery of Echt, in the
Netherlands, said to them: "I am ready for anything. Jesus is also here
in our midst. Thus far I have been able to pray very well and I have
said with all my heart: "Ave, Crux, spes unica'". Witnesses who managed
to escape the terrible massacre recounted that while Teresa Benedicta
of the Cross, dressed in the Carmelite habit, was making her way,
consciously, toward death, she distinguished herself by her conduct
full of peace, her serene attitude and her calm behaviour, attentive to
the needs of all. Prayer was the secret of this Saint, Co-Patroness of
Europe, who, "Even after she found the truth in the peace of the
contemplative life, she was to live to the full the mystery of the
Cross" (Apostolic Letter Spes Aedificandi).

"Hail Mary!" was the last prayer on the lips of Saint Maximilian Mary
Kolbe, as he offered his arm to the person who was about to kill him
with an injection of phenolic acid. It is moving to note how humble and
trusting recourse to Our Lady is always a source of courage and
serenity. While we prepare to celebrate the Solemnity of the
Assumption, which is one of the best-loved Marian feasts in the
Christian tradition, let us renew our entrustment to her who from
Heaven watches over us with motherly love at every moment. In fact, we
say this in the familiar prayer of the Hail Mary, asking her to pray
for us "now and at the hour of our death".

