____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 1 October 2008 - Saint Paul, The
Council of Jerusalem and the Incident in Antioch

[10]Saint Paul the Apostle Paul's relationship with the Twelve was
always one of respect and veneration that did not fail when he defended
the truth of the Gospel, which is nothing if not Jesus Christ, the
Lord. Let us reflect today on two episodes that show the veneration and
at the same time the freedom with which the Apostle addresses Cephas
and the other Apostles: the so-called "Council" of Jerusalem and the
incident in Antioch, Syria, mentioned in the Letter to the Galatians
(cf. 2:1-10; 2:11-14).

In the Church, every Council and Synod is an "event of the Spirit"
which considers the petitions of all the People of God as it takes
place. This was experienced first-hand by all those who received the
gift of participating in the Second Vatican Council. For this reason,
Saint Luke, in telling us about the Church's First Council, held in
Jerusalem, introduces the Letter which the Apostles sent on that
occasion to the Christian communities in the diaspora: "It has seemed
good to the Holy Spirit and to us..." (Acts 15:28). The Spirit, who
works in the whole Church, takes the Apostles by the hand, leading them
on new roads to implement his plans; he is the principal artisan who
builds the Church.

And the Assembly of Jerusalem also took place at a time of no small
tension in the primitive community. It was a matter of settling the
question of whether or not circumcision was compulsory for the Gentiles
who were adhering to Jesus Christ, the Lord, or whether it was lawful
for them not to be bound by the Mosaic law, that is, the observance of
the norms required in order to be upright, law-abiding people, and
especially, not to be bound by those norms that concerned religious
purification, clean and unclean foods and the Sabbath. Paul also refers
to the Assembly of Jerusalem in Galatians 2:1-10, 14 years after his
encounter with the Risen One at Damascus - we are in the second half of
the 40s A.D. - Paul set out with Barnabas from Antioch in Syria, taking
with him Titus, his faithful collaborator who, although he was a Greek,
had not been obliged to be circumcised in order to join the Church. On
that occasion Paul explained to the Twelve, whom he describes as those
who were "of repute", his Gospel of freedom from the Law (cf. Galatians
2:6). In the light of the encounter with the Risen Christ, Paul
realized that as soon as they adhered to the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
the Gentiles no longer needed as a hallmark of justice either
circumcision or the rules that governed food and the Sabbath: Christ is
our justice and all things that conform to him are "just". No other
signs are necessary in order to be just. In the Letter to the
Galatians, Saint Paul tells in a few lines how the assembly went. He
says enthusiastically that the Gospel of freedom from the Law was
approved by James, Cephas and John, "the pillars", who offered him and
Barnabas the right hand of ecclesial communion in Christ (cf. Galatians
2: 9). Since, as we have noted, for Luke the Council of Jerusalem
expresses the action of the Holy Spirit, for Paul it represents the
crucial recognition of freedom shared among all who participate in it:
a freedom from the obligations that derive from circumcision and from
the Law; that freedom for which "Christ has set us free" so that we
might stand fast and not submit again to a yoke of slavery (cf.
Galatians 5: 1). The two accounts of Paul and Luke of the Assembly of
Jerusalem have in common the liberating action of the Spirit, for
"where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom", Paul was to say in
his Second Letter to the Corinthians (cf. 3: 17).

However, as very clearly appears in Saint Paul's Letters, Christian
freedom is never identified with libertinage or with the will to do as
one pleases; it is actuated in conformity to Christ and hence in
authentic service to the brethren and above all to the neediest. For
this reason Paul's account of the Assembly ends by recalling the
Apostles' recommendation to him: "only they would have us remember the
poor, which very thing I was eager to do" (Gal 2: 10). Every Council is
born from the Church and returns to the Church: in this case it returns
with an attention for the poor who are primarily of the Church of
Jerusalem, as seen in various annotations in Paul's Letters. In his
concern for the poor, to which he testifies in particular in his Second
Letter to the Corinthians (cf. 8-9), and in the final part of his
Letter to the Romans (cf. Rm 15), Paul demonstrates his fidelity to the
decisions made at the Assembly.

Perhaps we are no longer able to understand fully the meaning that Paul
and his communities attributed to the collection for the poor of
Jerusalem. It was a completely new initiative in the area of religious
activities: it was not obligatory, but free and spontaneous; all the
Churches that were founded by Paul in the West took part. The
collection expressed the community's debt to the Mother Church of
Palestine, from which they had received the ineffable gift of the
Gospel. The value that Paul attributes to this gesture of sharing is so
great that he seldom calls it merely a "collection". Rather, for him it
is "service", "blessing", "gift", "grace", even "liturgy" (cf. 2 Cor
9). Particularly surprising is the latter term which gives a value that
is even religious to a collection of money: on the one hand it is a
liturgical act or "service" offered by every community to God and on
the other, it is a loving action made for people. Love for the poor and
the divine liturgy go hand in hand, love for the poor is liturgy. The
two horizons are present in every liturgy that is celebrated and
experienced in the Church which, by her nature, is opposed to any
separation between worship and life, between faith and works, between
prayer and charity for the brethren. Thus, the Council of Jerusalem
came into being to settle the question of how to treat Gentiles who
came to the faith, opting for freedom from circumcision and from the
observances imposed by the Law, and it was settled by the ecclesial and
pastoral need that is centred on faith in Jesus Christ and love for the
poor of Jerusalem and the whole Church.

The second episode is the well known incident in Antioch, Syria, that
attests to the inner freedom Paul enjoyed: how should one behave when
eating with believers of both Jewish and Gentile origin? Here the other
epicentre of Mosaic observance emerges: the distinction between clean
and unclean foods which deeply separated practising Jews from Gentiles.
At the outset Cephas, Peter, shared meals with both; but with the
arrival of certain Christians associated with James, "the Lord's
brother" (Gal 1: 19), Peter began to avoid contact with Gentiles at
table in order not to shock those who were continuing to observe the
laws governing the cleanliness of food and his decision was shared by
Barnabas. This decision profoundly divided the Christians who had come
from circumcision and the Christians who came from paganism. This
behaviour, that was a real threat to the unity and freedom of the
Church, provoked a passionate reaction in Paul who even accused Peter
and the others of hypocrisy: "If you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile
and not like a Jew, how can you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews?"
(Gal 2: 14). In fact, the thought of Paul on the one hand, and of Peter
and Barnabas on the other, were different: for the latter the
separation from the Gentiles was a way to safeguard and not to shock
believers who came from Judaism; on the contrary, for Paul it
constituted the danger of a misunderstanding of the universal salvation
in Christ, offered both to Gentiles and Jews. If justification is only
achieved by virtue of faith in Christ, of conformity with him,
regardless of any effect of the Law, what is the point of continuing to
observe the cleanliness of foods at shared meals? In all likelihood the
approaches of Peter and Paul were different: the former did not want to
lose the Jews who had adhered to the Gospel, and the latter did not
want to diminish the saving value of Christ's death for all believers.

It is strange to say but in writing to the Christians of Rome a few
years later (in about the middle of the 50s a.D.), Paul was to find
himself facing a similar situation and asked the strong not to eat
unclean foods in order not to lose or scandalize the weak: "it is right
not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that makes your brother
stumble" (Rm 14: 21). The incident at Antioch thus proved to be as much
of a lesson for Peter as it was for Paul. Only sincere dialogue, open
to the truth of the Gospel, could guide the Church on her journey: "For
the kingdom of God does not mean food and drink but righteousness and
peace and joy in the Holy Spirit" (Rm 14: 17). It is a lesson that we
too must learn: with the different charisms entrusted to Peter and to
Paul, let us all allow ourselves to be guided by the Spirit, seeking to
live in the freedom that is guided by faith in Christ and expressed in
service to the brethren. It is essential to be conformed ever more
closely to Christ. In this way one becomes really free, in this way the
Law's deepest core is expressed within us: love for God and neighbour.
Let us pray the Lord that he will teach us to share his sentiments, to
learn from him true freedom and the evangelical love that embraces
every human being.

