____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 16 September 2009 - Saint Symeon
the New Theologian

Today we pause to reflect on an Eastern monk, Symeon the New
Theologian, whose writings have had a notable influence on the theology
and spirituality of the East, in particular with regard to the
experience of mystical union with God. Symeon the New Theologian was
born in 949 in Galatai, Paphlagonia, in Asia Minor, into a provincial
noble family. While he was still young he moved to Constantinople to
complete his education and enter the Emperor's service. However, he did
not feel attracted by the civil career that awaited him. Under the
influence of the inner illumination he was experiencing, he set out in
search of someone who would guide him in the period of doubt and
perplexity he was living through and help him advance on the path of
union with God. He found this spiritual guide in Symeon the Pious
(Eulabes), a simple monk of the Studios in Constantinople who advised
him to read Mark the Monk's treatise, The Spiritual Law. Symeon the New
Theologian found in this text a teaching that made a deep impression on
him: "If you seek spiritual healing, be attentive to your
conscience,"he read in it. "Do all that it tells you and you will find
what serves you". From that very moment, he himself says, he never went
to sleep without first asking himself whether his conscience had
anything with which to reproach him.

Symeon entered the Studite monastery where, however, his mystical
experiences and extraordinary devotion to his spiritual father caused
him some difficulty. He moved to the small convent of Saint Mamas, also
in Constantinople, of which three years later he became abbot, hegumen.
There he embarked on an intense quest for spiritual union with Christ
which gave him great authority. It is interesting to note that he was
given the title of the "New Theologian", in spite of the tradition that
reserved this title for two figures, John the Evangelist and Gregory of
Nazianzus. Symeon suffered misunderstandings and exile but was
rehabilitated by Patriarch Sergius II of Constantinople.

Symeon the New Theologian spent the last stage of his life at the
Monastery of Saint Marina where he wrote a large part of his opus,
becoming ever more famous for his teaching and his miracles. He died on
12 March 1022.

The best known of his disciples, Niceta Stethatos, who collected and
copied Symeon's writings, compiled a posthumous edition of them and
subsequently wrote his biography. Symeon's opus consists of nine
volumes that are divided into theological, gnostic and practical
chapters, three books of catecheses addressed to monks, two books of
theological and ethical treatises and one of hymns. Moreover, his
numerous Letters should not be forgotten. All these works have had an
important place in the Eastern monastic tradition to our day.

Symeon focused his reflection on the Holy Spirit's presence in the
baptized and on the awareness they must have of this spiritual reality.
"Christian life", he emphasized, "is intimate, personal communion with
God, divine grace illumines the believer's heart and leads him to a
mystical vision of the Lord". Along these lines, Symeon the New
Theologian insisted that true knowledge of God does not come from books
but rather from spiritual experience, from spiritual life. Knowledge of
God is born from a process of inner purification that begins with
conversion of heart through the power of faith and love. It passes
through profound repentance and sincere sorrow for one's sins to attain
union with Christ, the source of joy and peace, suffused with the light
of his presence within us. For Symeon this experience of divine grace
did not constitute an exceptional gift for a few mystics but rather was
the fruit of Baptism in the life of every seriously committed believer.

A point on which to reflect, dear brothers and sisters! This holy
Eastern monk calls us all to pay attention to our spiritual life, to
the hidden presence of God within us, to the sincerity of the
conscience and to purification, to conversion of heart, so that the
Holy Spirit may really become present in us and guide us. Indeed, if
rightly we are concerned to care for our physical, human and
intellectual development, it is even more important not to neglect our
inner growth. This consists in the knowledge of God, in true knowledge,
not only learned from books but from within and in communion with God,
to experience his help at every moment and in every circumstance.
Basically it is this that Symeon describes when he recounts his own
mystical experience. Already as a young man, before entering the
monastery, while at home one night immersed in prayer and invoking
God's help to fight temptations, he saw the room fill with light.
Later, when he entered the monastery, he was given spiritual books for
instruction but reading them did not procure for him the peace that he
sought. He felt, he himself says, as if he were a poor little bird
without wings. He humbly accepted this situation without rebelling and
it was then that his visions of light began once again to increase.
Wishing to assure himself of their authenticity, Symeon asked Christ
directly: "Lord, is it truly you who are here?". He heard the
affirmative answer resonating in his heart and was supremely comforted.
"That, Lord", he was to write later, "was the first time that you
considered me, a prodigal son, worthy of hearing your voice". However,
not even this revelation left him entirely at peace. He wondered,
rather, whether he ought to consider that experience an illusion. At
last, one day an event occurred that was crucial to his mystical
experience. He began to feel like "a poor man who loves his brethren"
(ptochós philádelphos). Around him he saw hordes of enemies bent on
ensnaring him and doing him harm, yet he felt within an intense surge
of love for them. How can this be explained? Obviously, such great love
could not come from within him but must well up from another source.
Symeon realized that it was coming from Christ present within him and
everything became clear: he had a sure proof that the source of love in
him was Christ's presence. He was certain that having in ourselves a
love that exceeds our personal intentions suggests that the source of
love is in us. Thus we can say on the one hand that if we are without a
certain openness to love Christ does not enter us, and on the other,
that Christ becomes a source of love and transforms us. Dear friends,
this experience remains particularly important for us today if we are
to find the criteria that tell us whether we are truly close to God,
whether God exists and dwells in us. God's love develops in us if we
stay united to him with prayer and with listening to his word, with an
open heart. Divine love alone prompts us to open our hearts to others
and makes us sensitive to their needs, bringing us to consider everyone
as brothers and sisters and inviting us to respond to hatred with love
and to offence with forgiveness.

In thinking about this figure of Symeon the New Theologian, we may note
a further element of his spirituality. On the path of ascetic life
which he proposed and took, the monk's intense attention and
concentration on the inner experience conferred an essential importance
on the spiritual father of the monastery. The same young Symeon, as has
been said, had found a spiritual director who gave him substantial help
and whom he continued to hold in the greatest esteem such as to profess
veneration for him, even in public, after his death. And I would like
to say that the invitation to have recourse to a good spiritual father
who can guide every individual to profound knowledge of himself and
lead him to union with the Lord so that his life may be in ever closer
conformity with the Gospel still applies for all priests, consecrated
and lay people, and especially youth. To go towards the Lord we always
need a guide, a dialogue. We cannot do it with our thoughts alone. And
this is also the meaning of the ecclesiality of our faith, of finding
this guide.

To conclude, we may sum up the teaching and mystical experience of
Symeon the New Theologian in these words: in his ceaseless quest for
God, even amidst the difficulties he encountered and the criticism of
which he was the object, in the end he let himself be guided by love.
He himself was able to live and teach his monks that for every disciple
of Jesus the essential is to grow in love; thus we grow in the
knowledge of Christ himself, to be able to say with Saint Paul: "It is
no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me" (Galatians 2: 20).

