____________________

[9]Haerent Animo - On Priestly Sanctity, by Pope Pius X, 4 August 1908

[10][Pope Saint Pius X] Deeply imprinted upon our mind are those dread
words which the Apostle of the gentiles wrote to the Hebrews to remind
them of the obedience which they owed to their superiors: They keep
watch as having to render an account of your souls.

These grave words apply, no doubt, to all who have authority in the
Church, but they apply in a special way to us who, despite our
unworthiness, by the grace of God exercise supreme power within the
Church. Therefore, with unceasing solicitude, our thoughts and
endeavors are constantly directed to the promotion of the well-being
and growth of the flock of the Lord.

Our first and chief concern is that all who are invested with the
priestly ministry should be in every way fitted for the discharge of
their responsibilities. For we are fully convinced that it is here that
hope lies for the welfare and progress of religious life.

Hence it is that, ever since our elevation to the office of supreme
Pontiff, we have felt it a duty, notwithstanding the manifest and
numerous proofs of the high quality of the clergy as a whole, to urge
with all earnestness our venerable brethren the bishops of the whole
catholic world, to devote themselves unceasingly and efficaciously to
the formation of Christ in those who, by their calling, have the
responsibility of forming Christ in others.

We are well aware of the eagerness with which the episcopate have
carried out this task. We know the watchful care and unwearied energy
with which they seek to form the clergy in the ways of virtue, and for
this we wish not so much to praise them as to render them public
thanks.

But though it is a matter for congratulation that, as a result of the
diligence of the bishops, so many priests are animated by heavenly
fervor to rekindle or strengthen in their souls the flame of divine
grace which they received by the imposition of hands, we must deplore
the fact that there are others in different countries who do not show
themselves worthy to be taken as models by the christian people who
rightly look to them for a genuine model of christian virtue.

It is to these priests that we wish to open our heart in this Letter;
it is a father's loving heart which beats anxiously as he looks upon an
ailing child. Our love for them inspires us to add our own appeal to
the appeals of their own bishops. And while our appeal is intended
above all to recall the erring to the right path and to spur the
lukewarm to fresh endeavor, we would wish it to serve as an
encouragement to others also. We point out the path which each one must
strive to follow with constantly growing fervor, so that he may become
truly a man of God, as the Apostle so concisely expresses it, and
fulfill the legitimate expectations of the Church.

We have nothing to say which you have not already heard, no doctrine to
propound that is new to anyone; but we treat of matters which it is
necessary for everyone to bear in mind, and God inspires us with the
hope that our message will not fail to bear abundant fruit.

Our earnest appeal to you is this: Be renewed in the spirit of your
mind, and put on the new man, who according to God is created in
justice and sanctity of truth; that will be the most excellent and most
acceptable gift which you could offer to us on this fiftieth
anniversary of our ordination.

For our own part, when we review before God with a contrite heart and
in a spirit of humility the years passed in the priesthood, we will
feel that we are making reparation in some measure for the human
frailties which we have cause to regret, by thus admonishing and
exhorting you to walk worthily of God, in all things pleasing.

In this exhortation, it is not your personal welfare alone that we are
striving to secure, but the common welfare of catholic peoples; the one
cannot be separated from the other. For the priest cannot be good or
bad for himself alone; his conduct and way of life have far-reaching
consequences for the people. A truly good priest is an immense gift
wherever he may be.

I. THE OBLIGATION OF PRIESTLY SANCTITY

Therefore, beloved sons, we will begin this exhortation by stimulating
you to that sanctity of life which the dignity of your office demands.

Anyone who exercises the priestly ministry exercises it not for himself
alone, but for others. For every high priest taken from among men is
appointed for men in the things that pertain to God. Christ himself
taught that lesson when he compared the priest to salt and to light, in
order to show the nature of the priestly ministry. The priest then is
the light of the world and the salt of the earth. Everyone knows that
he fulfills this function chiefly by the teaching of christian truth;
and who can be unaware that this ministry of teaching is practically
useless if the priest fails to confirm by the example of his life the
truths which he teaches? Those who hear him might say, insultingly it
is true, but not without justification: They profess that they know God
but in their works they deny him; they will refuse to accept his
teaching and will derive no benefit from the light of the priest.

Christ himself, the model of priests, taught first by the example of
his deeds and then by his words: Jesus began to do and then to teach.

Likewise, a priest who neglects his own sanctification can never be the
salt of the earth; what is corrupt and contaminated is utterly
incapable of preserving from corruption; where sanctity is lacking,
there corruption will inevitably find its way. Hence Christ, continuing
this comparison, calls such priests salt that has lost its savor, which
is good for nothing any more, but to be cast out and to be trodden on
by men.

These truths are all the more evident inasmuch as we exercise the
priestly ministry not in our own name, but in the name of Jesus Christ.
The Apostle said: Let man so consider us as the ministers of Christ and
the dispensers of the mysteries of God; for Christ, therefore, we are
ambassadors. This is the reason that Christ has numbered us not among
his servants but as his friends. I will not now call you servants; . .
. but I have called you friends, because all things whatsoever I have
heard from my Father I have made known to you; . . . I have chosen you
and appointed you that you should go and bring forth fruit.

We have, therefore, to take the place of Christ: the mission which he
has given to us we must fulfill with that same purpose that he
intended. True friendship consists in unity of mind and will, identity
of likes and dislikes; therefore, as friends of Jesus Christ, we are
bound to have that mind in us which was in Jesus Christ who is holy,
innocent, undefiled. As his envoys, we must win the minds of men for
his doctrine and his law by first observing them ourselves; sharing as
we do in his power to deliver souls from the bondage of sin, we must
strive by every means to avoid becoming entangled in these toils of
sin.

But it is particularly as the ministers of Jesus Christ in the great
sacrifice which is constantly renewed with abiding power for the
salvation of the world, that we have the duty of conforming our minds
to that spirit in which he offered himself as an unspotted victim to
God on the altar of the Cross. In the Old Law, though victims were only
shadowy figures and symbols, sanctity of a high degree was demanded of
the priest; what then of us, now that the victim is Christ himself?
"How pure should not he be who shares in this sacrifice! More
resplendent than the sun must be the hand that divides this Flesh, the
mouth that is filled with spiritual fire, the tongue that is reddened
by this Blood!"

Saint Charles Borromeo gave apt expression to this thought when, in his
discourses to the clergy, he declared: "If we would only bear in mind,
dearly beloved brethren, the exalted character of the things that the
Lord God has placed in our hands, what unbounded influence would not
this have in impelling us to lead lives worthy of ecclesiastics! Has
not the Lord placed everything in my hand, when he put there his
only-begotten Son, coeternal and coequal with himself? In my hand he
has placed all his treasures, his sacraments, his graces; he has placed
there souls, than whom nothing can be dearer to him; in his love he has
preferred them to himself, and redeemed them by his Blood; he has
placed heaven in my hand, and it is in my power to open and close it to
others . . . How, then, can I be so ungrateful for such condescension
and love as to sin against him, to offend his honor, to pollute this
body which is his? How can I come to defile this high dignity, this
life consecrated to his service?"

It is well to speak at greater length on this holiness of life, which
is the object of the unfailing solicitude of the Church. This is the
purpose for which seminaries have been founded; within their walls
young men who hope to be priests are trained in letters and other
branches of learning, but even more important is the training in piety
which they also receive there from their tender years. And then, when
the Church gradually and at long intervals promotes candidates to
Orders, like a watchful parent she never fails to exhort them to
sanctity.

It is a source of joy to recall her words on these occasions.

When we were first enrolled in the army of the Church, she sought from
us the formal declaration: The Lord is the portion of my inheritance
and of my cup: it is thou that wilt restore my inheritance to me. Saint
Jerome tells us that with these words "the cleric is reminded that one
who is the portion of the Lord, or who has the Lord as his portion,
must show himself to be such a one as possesses the Lord and is
possessed by him."

How solemnly the Church addresses those who are about to be promoted
sub-deacons! "You must consider repeatedly and with all attention the
office which of your own volition you seek to-day . . . if you receive
this Order, you cannot afterwards revoke your decision, you must remain
always in the service of God and, with his help, observe chastity." And
finally: "If up to now you have been negligent in relation to the
Church, henceforth you must be diligent; if hitherto you have been
somnolent, henceforth you must be vigilant . . . if up to now your life
has been unseemly, henceforth you must be chaste; . . . Consider the
ministry which is entrusted to you!" For those who are about to be
raised to the diaconate, the Church prays to God through the mouth of
the bishop: "May they have in abundance the pattern of every virtue,
authority that is unassuming, constancy in chastity, the purity of
innocence, and the observance of spiritual discipline. May thy commands
shine forth through their conduct, and may the people find a saintly
model in their exemplary chastity."

The admonition addressed to those who are about to be ordained priests
is even more moving: "It is with great fear that one must approach this
high dignity, and care must be taken that those chosen for it are
recommended by heavenly wisdom, blameless life and sustained observance
of justice . . . Let the fragrance of your life be a joy to the Church
of Christ, so that by your preaching and example you may build up the
house, that is, the family of God." Above all the Church stresses the
solemn words: Imitate that which you handle, an injunction which fully
agrees with the command of Saint Paul: That we may present every man
perfect in Jesus Christ.

Since this is the mind of the Church on the life of a priest, one
cannot be surprised at the complete unanimity of the Fathers and
Doctors on this matter; it might indeed be thought that they are guilty
of exaggeration, but a careful examination will lead to the conclusion
that they taught nothing that was not entirely true and correct. Their
teaching can be summarized thus: there should be as much difference
between the priest and any other upright man as there is between heaven
and earth; consequently, the priest must see to it that his life is
free not merely from grave faults but even from the slightest faults.
The Council of Trent made the teaching of these venerable men its own
when it warned clerics to avoid" even venial faults which in their case
would be very grave." These faults are grave, not in themselves, but in
relation to the one who commits them; for to him, even more than to the
sacred edifice, are applicable the words: Holiness becometh thy house.

II. NATURE OF PRIESTLY HOLINESS

We must now consider what is the nature of this sanctity, which the
priest cannot lack without being culpable; ignorance or
misunderstanding of it leaves one exposed to grave peril.

There are some who think, and even declare openly, that the true
measure of the merits of a priest is his dedication to the service of
others; consequently, with an almost complete disregard for the
cultivation of the virtues which lead to the personal sanctification of
the priest (these they describe as passive virtues), they assert that
all his energies and fervor should be directed to the development and
practice of what they call the active virtues. One can only be
astonished by this gravely erroneous and pernicious teaching.

Our predecessor of happy memory in his wisdom spoke as follows of this
teaching: "To maintain that some christian virtues are more suited to
one period than to another is to forget the words of the Apostle: Those
whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of
his Son. Christ is the teacher and the model of all sanctity; all who
desire to take their place in the abode of the blessed must adapt their
conduct to the standard which he has laid down. Now Christ does not
change with the passing of the centuries: He is the same yesterday and
to-day and forever. The words: Learn of me because I am meek and humble
of heart, apply to men of every age; at all times Christ reveals
himself obedient unto death; true for every age are the words of the
Apostle: They that are Christ's have crucified the flesh, with the
vices and concupiscences."

These passages apply, no doubt, to all the faithful, but they apply
more especially to priests. Let priests take as directed particularly
to themselves the further words which were spoken by our predecessor in
his apostolic zeal: "Would that at the present day there were many more
who cultivated these virtues as did the saints of former times, who by
their humility, their obedience, their abstinence, were mighty in work
and word, to the great benefit not only of religion but also of public
and civil life."

It is not irrelevant to note here that Leo XIII in his wisdom made
special mention of the virtue of abstinence, which we call self-denial,
in the words of the Gospel. He was quite right to do so, for it is from
self-denial chiefly that the strength and power and fruit of every
priestly function derive; it is when this virtue is neglected that
there appears in the priest's conduct whatever may be of a nature to
cause offense to the eyes and hearts of the faithful. If one acts for
the sake of filthy lucre, or becomes involved in worldly affairs, or
seeks for the highest places and despises others, or follows merely
human counsel, or seeks to please men, or trusts in the persuasive
words of human wisdom, this is the result of neglect of the command of
Christ and of the refusal to accept the condition laid down by him: If
anyone will come after me, let him deny himself.

While insisting on these truths, we would likewise admonish the priest
that in the last analysis, it is not for himself alone that he has to
sanctify himself, for he is the workman whom Christ went out . . . to
hire into his vineyard. Therefore, it is his duty to uproot unfruitful
plants and to sow useful ones, to water the crop and to guard lest the
enemy sow cockle among it. Consequently, the priest must be careful not
to allow an unbalanced concern for personal perfection to lead him to
overlook any part of the duties of his office which are conducive to
the welfare of others. These duties include the preaching of the word
of God, the hearing of confessions, assisting the sick, especially the
dying, the instruction of those who are ignorant of the faith, the
consolation of the sorrowing, leading back the erring, in a word, the
imitation in every respect of Christ who went about doing good and
healing all that were oppressed by the devil.

In the midst of all these duties, the priest shall have ever present to
his mind the striking admonition given by Saint Paul: Neither he who
plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase.
It may be that we go and sow the seed with tears; it may be that we
tend its growth at the cost of heavy labor; but to make it germinate
and yield the hoped for fruit, that depends on God alone and his
powerful assistance. This further point also is worthy of profound
consideration, namely that men are but the instruments whom God employs
for the salvation of souls; they must, therefore, be instruments fit to
be employed by God. And how is this to be achieved? Do we imagine that
God is influenced by any inborn or acquired excellence of ours, to make
use of our help for the extension of his glory? By no means; for it is
written: God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the
wise, and the weak things of the world God has chosen to confound the
strong, and the humble and contemptible things of the world God has
chosen, the things that are not, in order to bring to nought the things
that are.

There is, indeed, only one thing that unites man to God, one thing that
makes him pleasing to God and a not unworthy dispenser of his mercy;
and that one thing is holiness of life and conduct. If this holiness,
which is the true supereminent knowledge of Jesus Christ, is wanting in
the priest, then everything is wanting. Without this, even the
resources of profound learning (which we strive to promote among the
clergy), or exceptional competence in practical affairs, though they
may bring some benefit to the Church or to individuals, are not
infrequently the cause of deplorable damage to them.

On the other hand, there is abundant evidence from every age that even
the humblest priest, provided his life has the adornment of overflowing
sanctity, can undertake and accomplish marvelous works for the
spiritual welfare of the people of God; an outstanding example in
recent times is John Baptist Vianney, a model pastor of souls, to whom
we are happy to have decreed the honors of the Blessed in heaven.

Sanctity alone makes us what our divine vocation demands, men crucified
to the world and to whom the world has been crucified, men walking in
newness of life who, in the words of Saint Paul, show themselves as
ministers of God in labors, in vigils, in fasting, in chastity, in
knowledge, in long-suffering, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in
sincere charity, in the word of truth; men who seek only heavenly
things and strive by every means to lead others to them.

II MEANS OF ACQUIRING PRIESTLY SANCTITY

1 PRAYER, AN ESSENTIAL CONDITION OF SANCTITY.

Since, as everyone realizes, holiness of life is the fruit of the
exercise of the will inasmuch as it is strengthened by the aid of
divine grace, God has made abundant provision lest we should at any
time lack the gift of grace, if we desire it. We can obtain it, in the
first place, by constant prayer.

There is, in fact, such a necessary link between holiness and prayer
that the one cannot exist without the other.

The words of Chrysostom on this matter are an exact expression of the
truth: "I consider that it is obvious to everyone that it is impossible
to live virtuously without the aid of prayer;" and Augustine sums up
shrewdly: "He truly knows how to live rightly, who rightly knows how to
pray."

Christ himself, by his constant exhortations and especially by his
example, has even more firmly inculcated these truths. To pray he
withdrew into desert places or climbed the mountain alone; he spent
whole nights absorbed in prayer; he paid many visits to the temple;
even when the crowds thronged around him, he raised his eyes to heaven
and prayed openly before them; when nailed to the Cross, in the agony
of death, he supplicated the Father with a strong cry and tears.

Let us be convinced, therefore, that a priest must be specially devoted
to the practice of prayer if he is to maintain worthily his dignity and
to fulfill his duty. All too frequently one must deplore the fact that
prayer is a matter of routine rather than of genuine fervor; the Psalms
are recited at the appointed times in a negligent manner, a few short
prayers are said in between; there is no further thought of
consecrating part of the day to speaking with God, with pious
aspirations to him. And it is the priest, more than any other, who is
bound to obey scrupulously the command of Christ: We ought always pray,
a command which Paul so insistently inculcated: Be instant in prayer,
watching in it with thanksgiving; pray without ceasing.

How numerous are the opportunities of turning to God in prayer which
present themselves daily to the soul which is eager for its own
sanctification and the salvation of others! Anguish of soul, the
persistent onslaught of temptation, our lack of virtue, slackness and
failure in our works, our many offenses and negligences, fear of the
divine judgment, all these should move us to approach the Lord with
tears, in order to obtain help from him and also to increase without
difficulty the treasure of our merit in his eyes.

Nor should our tearful supplication be for ourselves alone. In the
deluge of crime, which spreads far and wide, we especially should
implore and pray for divine clemency; we should appeal insistently to
Christ who in his infinite mercy lavishes his graces in his wonderful
Sacrament: Spare, O Lord, spare thy people.

2 THE OBLIGATION OF DAILY MEDITATION

A point of capital importance is that a certain time should be given
daily to meditation on the eternal truths. No priest can neglect this
practice without incurring a grave charge of negligence and without
detriment to his soul. The saintly abbot, Bernard, when writing to
Eugene III, his former pupil who had become Roman Pontiff, frankly and
emphatically admonished him never to omit daily divine meditation; he
would not admit as an excusing cause even the many weighty cares which
the supreme pontificate involves. In justification of this advice he
enumerated with great prudence the benefits of the practice of
meditation: "Meditation purifies the source from which it comes, the
mind. It controls affections, guides our acts, corrects excesses, rules
our conduct, introduces order and dignity into our lives; it bestows
understanding of things divine and human. It brings clarity where there
is confusion, binds what is torn apart, gathers what is scattered,
investigates what is hidden, seeks out the truth, weighs what has the
appearance of truth, and shows up what is pretense and falsehood. It
plans future action and reviews the past, so that nothing remains in
the mind that has not been corrected or that stands in need of
correction. When affairs are prospering it anticipates the onset of
adversity, and when adversity comes it seems not to feel it, in this it
displays in turn prudence and fortitude."

This summary of the benefits which meditation is calculated to bring is
an instructive reminder not only of its salutary effect in every
department, but also of its absolute necessity.

Despite the high dignity of the various functions of the priestly
office and the veneration which they deserve, frequent exercise of
these functions may lead those who discharge them to treat them with
less respect than is their due. From a gradual decline in fervor it is
an easy step to carelessness and even to distaste for the most sacred
things. In addition, a priest cannot avoid daily contact with a corrupt
society; frequently, in the very exercise of pastoral charity, he must
fear the insidious attacks of the infernal serpent. Is it not all too
easy even for religious souls to be tarnished by contact with the
world? It is evident, therefore, that there is a grave and urgent need
for the priest to turn daily to the contemplation of the eternal
truths, so that his mind and will may gain new strength to stand firm
against every enticement to evil.

Moreover, it is the strict duty of the priest to have a mind for
heavenly things, to teach them, to inculcate them; in the regulation of
his whole life he must be so much superior to human considerations that
whatever he does in the discharge of his sacred office will be done in
accordance with God, under the impulse and guidance of faith; it is
fitting then that he should possess a certain aptitude to rise above
earthly considerations and strive for heavenly things. Nothing is more
conducive to the acquisition and strengthening of this disposition of
soul, this quasi-natural union with God, than daily meditation; it is
unnecessary to dwell upon this truth which every prudent person clearly
realizes.

The life of a priest who underestimates the value of meditation, or has
lost all taste for it, provides a sad confirmation of what we have been
saying. Let your eyes dwell on the spectacle of men in whom the mind of
Christ, that supremely precious gift, has grown weak; their thoughts
are all on earthly things, they are engaged in vain pursuits, their
words are so much unimportant chatter; in the performance of their
sacred functions they are careless, cold, perhaps even unworthy.
Formerly, these same men, with the oil of priestly ordination still
fresh upon them, diligently prepared themselves for the recitation of
the Psalms, lest they should be like men who tempt God; they sought a
time and place free from disturbance; they endeavored to grasp the
divine meaning; in union with the psalmist they poured forth their soul
in songs of praise, sorrow and rejoicing. But now, what a change has
taken place!

In like manner, little now remains of that lively devotion which they
felt towards the divine mysteries. Formerly, how beloved were those
tabernacles! It was their delight to be present at the table of the
Lord, to invite more and more pious souls to that banquet! Before Mass,
what purity, what earnestness in the prayers of a loving heart! How
great reverence in the celebration of Mass, with complete observance of
the august rites in all their beauty! What sincerity in thanksgiving!
And the sweet perfume of Christ was diffused over their people! We beg
of you, beloved sons: Call to mind . . . the former days; for then your
soul was burning with zeal, being nourished by holy meditation.

Some of those who find recollection of the heart a burden, or entirely
neglect it, do not seek to disguise the impoverishment of soul which
results from their attitude, but they try to excuse themselves on the
pretext that they are completely occupied by the activity of their
ministry, to the manifold benefit of others.

They are gravely mistaken. For as they are unaccustomed to converse
with God, their words completely lack the inspiration which comes from
God when they speak to men about God or inculcate the counsels of the
christian life; it is as if the message of the Gospel were practically
dead in them. However distinguished for prudence and eloquence, their
speech does not echo the voice of the good Shepherd which the sheep
hear to their spiritual profit; it is mere sound which goes forth
without fruit, and sometimes gives a pernicious example to the disgrace
of religion and the scandal of the good.

It is the same in other spheres of their activity; there can be no
solid achievement, nothing of lasting benefit, in the absence of the
heavenly dew which is brought down in abundance by the prayer of the
man who humbles himself.

At this point we cannot refrain from referring with sorrow to those
who, carried away by pernicious novelties, dare to maintain a contrary
opinion, and to hold that time devoted to meditation and prayer is
wasted. What calamitous blindness! Would that such people would take
thought seriously with themselves and realize whither this neglect and
contempt of prayer leads. From it have sprung pride and stubbornness;
and these have produced those bitter fruits which in our paternal love
we hesitate to mention and most earnestly desire to remove completely.

May God answer this our prayer: may he look down with kindness on those
who have strayed, and pour forth on them the "spirit of grace and of
prayer" in such abundance that they may repent of their error and, of
their own will and to the joy of all, return to the path which they
wrongly abandoned, and henceforth follow it with greater care. God
himself be witness, as he was to the Apostle, of how we long for them
all with the love of Jesus Christ.

Beloved sons, may this our exhortation, which is none other than the
exhortation of Christ our Lord: Be watchful, be vigilant and pray, be
deeply engraven in their hearts and in yours. Let each one diligently
apply himself above all to the practice of pious meditation; let him do
so with sincere confidence, constantly repeating the words: Lord teach
us to pray. There is a special, very important reason which should urge
us to meditation; it is that meditation is a rich source of the wisdom
and virtue which are so useful in the supremely difficult task of
caring for souls.

The pastoral address of Saint Charles Borromeo is relevant here and is
worth recalling: "Realize, my brethren, that nothing is so necessary to
an ecclesiastic as mental prayer before, during and after all our
actions. I will sing, said the prophet, and I will understand. If
administering the sacraments, my brother, meditate on what you are
doing; if celebrating Mass, ponder on what you are offering; in
reciting the Psalms, reflect on what you are saying and to whom you are
speaking; if directing souls, reflect on the Blood with which they were
washed."

Therefore, it is with good reason that the Church commends us to repeat
frequently the sentiments of David: Blessed is the man who meditates in
the law of the Lord, whose desire is upon it night and day; everything
that he does shall prosper.

There is one final motive which can be regarded as comprising all the
others. If the priest is called "another Christ" and is truly such by
reason of his sharing in Christ's power, should he not also become and
be recognized as another Christ through imitation of Christ's deeds?
"Let it be our principal study to meditate upon the life of Jesus
Christ."

3 SPIRITUAL READING

It is of great importance that the priest should combine his daily
divine meditation with the constant reading of pious books, especially
the inspired books. That was the command that Paul gave to Timothy:
Attend unto reading. The same lesson was taught by Saint Jerome when
instructing Nepotianus on the priestly life: "Never let the sacred book
leave your hands"; and he gave the following reason for his advice:
"Learn that which you are to teach; holding to that faithful word which
conforms to doctrine, that you may be able to exhort with sound
doctrine, and refute the opponents." What great advantages are gained
by priests who are faithful to this practice! With what unction they
preach Christ! Far from flattering and soothing the hearts and minds of
their audience, they stimulate them to better things, and arouse in
them the desire of heavenly things.

The command of Saint Jerome: "Let the sacred books be always in your
hands," is important for another reason also, a reason which concerns
your own personal welfare.

Everyone knows the great influence that is exerted by the voice of a
friend who gives candid advice, assists by his counsel, corrects,
encourages and leads one away from error. Blessed is the man who has
found a true friend; he that has found him has found a treasure. We
should, then, count pious books among our true friends. They solemnly
remind us of our duties and of the prescriptions of legitimate
discipline; they arouse the heavenly voices that were stifled in our
souls; they rid our resolutions of listlessness; they disturb our
deceitful complacency; they show the true nature of less worthy
affections to which we have sought to close our eyes; they bring to
light the many dangers which beset the path of the imprudent. They
render all these services with such kindly discretion that they prove
themselves to be not only our friends, but the very best of friends.
They are always at hand, constantly beside us to assist us in the needs
of our souls; their voice is never harsh, their advice is never
self-seeking, their words are never timid or deceitful.

There are many striking examples of the salutary effects of the reading
of pious books. Outstanding is the case of Augustine whose great
services to the Church had their origin in such reading: "Take, read;
take, read; I took (the epistles of Paul the Apostle), I opened, I read
in silence; it was as though the darkness of all my doubting was driven
away by the light of peace which had entered my soul."

In our own day, alas! it is the contrary that happens all too
frequently. Members of the clergy allow their minds to be overcome
gradually by the darkness of doubt and turn aside to worldly pursuits;
the chief reason for this is that they prefer to read a variety of
other works and newspapers, which are full of cunningly propounded
errors and corruption, rather than the divine books and other pious
literature.

Be on your guard, beloved sons; do not trust in your experience and
mature years, do not be deluded by the vain hope that you can thus
better serve the general good. Do not transgress the limits which are
determined by the laws of the Church, nor go beyond what is suggested
by prudence and charity towards oneself. Anyone who admits this poison
into his soul will rarely escape the disastrous consequences of the
evil thus introduced.

4 EXAMINATION OF CONSCIENCE

The benefits to be derived from spiritual reading and meditation will
certainly be more abundant if the priest supplements them by an
examination which will enable him to discern whether he is striving
conscientiously to put into practice what he has learned in his reading
and meditation.

Particularly relevant in this context is the excellent advice of
Chrysostom which was intended especially for priests. Every night
before going to sleep, "make your conscience appear in judgment; demand
of it an account, and having thoroughly probed and dissected whatever
evil purposes you formed during the day, repent for them."

The excellence of this practice and its fruitfulness for christian
virtue are clearly established by the teaching of the great masters of
the spiritual life. We are pleased to quote that remarkable passage
from the rule of Saint Bernard: "As a searching investigator of the
integrity of your own conduct, submit your life to a daily examination.
Consider carefully what progress you have made or what ground you have
lost . . . Strive to know yourself . . . Place all your faults before
your eyes. Come face to face with yourself, as though you were another
person, and then weep for your faults."

It would be shameful, indeed, were we to see verified in this matter
the words of Christ: The children of this world are wiser in their
generation than the children of light. You know with what assiduity the
children of this world manage their affairs, how often they compare
income with expenses, how carefully and strictly they balance their
accounts, how they grieve over their losses, and drive themselves on to
make them good. We, on the other hand, though perhaps our hearts are
eager for gaining honors, for increasing our wealth, or for the mere
winning of renown and glory by our learning, are listless and without
inclination for the supremely important and difficult task of achieving
our own sanctification. Rarely do we take time for recollection and
submit our souls to scrutiny; our soul has become overgrown like the
vineyard of the slothful man, of which it is written: I passed by the
field of the slothful man and by the vineyard of the foolish man; and
behold with nettles it was all filled, and thorns had covered the face
thereof, and the stone wall was broken down.

The situation is aggravated by the fact that all round us we see the
multiplication of evil example which is a menace to priestly virtue
itself every day calls for even greater vigilance and fresh endeavor.

Experience shows that the man who frequently subjects his thoughts,
words and actions to a strict examination, gains new strength of soul
both to detest and fly from evil and to desire and strive for the good.

It is also shown by experience that one who refuses to appear before
the tribunal where justice sits in judgment, and conscience appears at
once as the accused and the accuser, usually suffers grave loss and
disadvantage thereby. Vainly too will one seek in the conduct of such a
person for that circumspection, so highly prized in the christian, that
tries to avoid even venial faults, or that sense of reverence, so
becoming in a priest, which shudders at even the slightest offense to
God.

This carelessness and indifference to one's own welfare sometimes go so
far as to lead to neglect even of the sacrament of Penance, which
Christ, in his great mercy, has given us as a most timely aid to human
weakness.

It cannot be denied, and it is bitterly to be deplored, that not
infrequently one finds priests who use the thunders of their eloquence
to frighten others from sin, but seem to have no such fear for
themselves and become hardened in their faults; a priest who exhorts
and arouses others to wash away without delay the stains from their
souls by due religious acts, is himself so sluggish in doing this that
he delays even for months; he who knows how to pour the health-giving
oil and wine into the wounds of others is himself content to lie
wounded by the wayside, and lacks the prudence to call for the saving
hand of a brother which is almost within his grasp. In the past and
even to-day, in different places, what great evils have resulted from
this, bringing dishonor to God and the Church, injuring the christian
flock and disgracing the priesthood!

For our own part, beloved sons, when we reflect upon these matters, as
is our bounden duty, we are overcome with grief and our voice breaks
into lamentation.

Woe to the priest who fails to respect his high dignity, and defiles by
his infidelities the name of the holy God for whom he is bound to be
holy. Corruptio optimi pessima. "Sublime is the dignity of the priest,
but great is his fall, if he is guilty of sin; let us rejoice for the
high honor, but let us fear for them lest they fall; great is the joy
that they have scaled the heights, but it is insignificant compared
with the sorrow of their fall from on high."

Woe then to the priest who so far forgets himself that he abandons the
practice of prayer, rejects the nourishment of spiritual reading and
never turns his attention inwards upon himself to hear the accusing
voice of conscience. Neither the festering wounds on his conscience,
nor even the tearful pleas of his mother the Church, will move such an
unfortunate priest until those fearsome threats come upon him: Blind
the heart of this people, make dull their ears, and close their eyes,
lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and
understand with their heart and be converted and I should heal them.

May God in his bounteous mercy grant that these ominous words may never
be true of any of you, beloved sons; he knows what is in our heart, he
sees that it is free from rancor towards anyone, and that it is
inflamed with pastoral zeal and paternal love for all: For what is our
hope, or joy, or crown of glory? Is it not you, in the presence of our
Lord Jesus Christ?

IV. PRIESTLY VIRTUES

You all know very well, wherever you may be, the difficult period
through which, in the mysterious design of God, the Church is now
passing. Consider likewise and ponder on the sacred duty which is yours
to stand by and to assist in her struggles the Church which has
bestowed upon you an office of such exalted dignity.

Now more than ever the clergy need to be men of more than ordinary
virtue, virtue that is a shining example, eager, active, ever ready to
do great things for Christ and to suffer much. There is nothing that we
more ardently ask from God and desire for each and everyone of you.

May chastity, the choicest ornament of our priesthood, flourish
undimmed amongst you; through the splendor of this virtue, by which the
priest is made like the angels, the priest wins greater veneration
among the christian flock, and his ministry yields an even greater
harvest of holiness.

May the reverence and obedience which you solemnly pledged to those
whom the Holy Spirit has appointed to rule the Church, increase and
gain strength; and especially, may your minds and hearts be linked by
ever closer ties of loyalty to this Apostolic See which justly claims
your respectful homage.

May all of you excel in charity-a charity that never seeks what is its
own; when you have mastered the human incentives of jealous rivalry and
self-seeking ambition, let all together in fraternal emulation strive
for the glory of God.

A great multitude of sick, blind, lame and paralytics, in abject
misery, awaits the benefits of your charity; the youth above all, those
countless young people who are the dearest hope of society and
religion, it is they, menaced as they are by error and corrupting
influences, who especially stand in need of your charitable activity.

Strive eagerly not only by means of catechetical instruction-which once
more with even greater earnestness we commend to you-but by unsparing
use of all the resources of wisdom and skill at your command, to
deserve well of all. Whether your immediate task be to assist, to
protect, to heal, to make peace, let your one aim and most ardent
desire be to win or to secure souls for Christ. How unwearied, how
industrious, how fearless are Christ's enemies in their activities, to
the immeasurable loss of souls!

The Catholic Church rejoices in and is proud of the charity beyond
praise which inspires the clergy to proclaim the Gospel of christian
peace and to bring the blessings of salvation and civilization even to
barbarous races; through their unsparing labor, sometimes consecrated
by their blood, the kingdom of Christ is expanding constantly and the
christian faith gains added splendor from these new triumphs.

If, beloved sons, the unsparing charity of your efforts is met by
jealousy, reproaches and calumnies as frequently happens, do not allow
yourselves to be overcome with sadness: Do not tire in doing good.

Let your mind dwell on those countless great figures who, following the
example of the Apostles, even in the midst of cruel insults borne for
the name of Christ, went rejoicing, blessing those who cursed them.

For we are the children and the brethren of the saints, whose names
shine in the book of life, and whose praises the Church proclaims: Let
us not stain our glory.

COUNSELS OF PRIESTLY PERFECTION.

When the spirit of the grace of the priesthood has been restored and
strengthened in the ranks of the clergy, our other proposals for
reform, of whatever kind they may be, will with God's help prove much
more successful.

For this reason we have thought it well to supplement what we have
already said by some points of practical advice which will give you
timely aid to preserve and nourish the grace of your priesthood.

First, there is the pious retreat during which the soul devotes itself
to spiritual exercises, as they are called. These exercises are known
and approved by all, though not everyone puts them into practice; there
should, if possible, be a yearly retreat, performed either alone or,
preferably, in common with others, the second method being usually more
productive of good results, without prejudice to episcopal regulations.
We ourselves have already spoken in praise of the advantages to be
derived from a retreat, on the occasion when we issued certain decrees
on this subject bearing on the discipline of the clergy of Rome.

It will be no less profitable for souls, if a similar retreat lasting a
few hours is performed each month either privately or with others. We
are happy to note that in many places a custom of this kind has already
been introduced, with the encouragement of the bishops who sometimes
preside over the group assembled for retreat.

Another suggestion which we warmly recommend is that priests, as befits
brothers, should form a closer union among themselves, with the
approval and under the direction of the bishop. It is strongly to be
recommended that they should form an association in order to help one
another in adversity, to defend the honor of their name and office
against attack, and for other similar objects. But it is even more
important that they should form an association with a view to the
cultivation of sacred learning, particularly in order to apply
themselves with greater solicitude to the object of their vocation and
to promote the welfare of souls by concerting their ideas and their
efforts. The annals of the Church show that at times when priests
generally lived in a form of common life, this association produced
many good results. Why might not one re-establish in our own day
something of the kind, with due attention to differences of country and
priestly duties? Might not one justifiably hope, and the Church would
rejoice at it, that such an institution would yield the same good
results as formerly?

There are, indeed, associations of this kind which enjoy episcopal
approval; and the advantages they confer are all the greater if one
becomes a member early in life, in the very first years of the
priesthood. We ourselves have had practical experience of the worth of
one such association and fostered it during our episcopate; even still
we continue to show special consideration to it and others.

Beloved sons, it is your duty to value highly and to apply these aids
to priestly grace and such other means as the watchful prudence of your
bishops may suggest from time to time; thus with each passing day you
will walk more worthily of the vocation in which you are called,
honoring your ministry and accomplishing in yourselves the will of God,
that is, your sanctification.

FINAL EXHORTATION

Your sanctification has, indeed, first place in our thoughts and in our
cares; therefore, with our eyes raised to heaven, we frequently pray
for the whole clergy, repeating the words of Christ, our Lord: Holy
Father . . . sanctify them.

It is a source of joy to us that we are joined in that prayer by very
many from among the faithful of every condition who are gravely
concerned for your welfare and that of the Church; it is no less a
source of joy that there are many generous souls, not only within the
cloister but in the midst of the busy world, who offer themselves
continuously as victims to God for the same object.

May the Lord graciously deign to accept, as a sweet perfume, their pure
and sublime prayers, and may he not refuse our own humble supplication;
we implore him, in his merciful providence, to come to our aid, and may
he pour forth upon all the clergy the riches of grace, charity and
virtue which repose in the most pure Heart of his beloved Son.

Finally, beloved sons, we are happy to express our heartfelt thanks for
the manifold expressions of good wishes, inspired by filial piety,
which were offered by you on the approach of the fiftieth anniversary
of our ordination. The good wishes which we convey to you in return, we
entrust to the care of the great Virgin Mother, Queen of Apostles, in
order that they may be fulfilled even more abundantly.

It was she who by her example showed the Apostles, who were the first
to share the blessing of the priesthood, how they should persevere with
one mind in prayer until they were clothed with power from on high; by
her prayers she secured that power for them in more abundant measure,
she increased and strengthened it by her counsel, so that their labors
were abundantly blessed.

Beloved sons, we pray that the peace of Christ may reign in your hearts
with the joy of the Holy Spirit; as a pledge of this we bestow on all
with the deepest affection the Apostolic benediction.

Given in Rome, at Saint Peter's, 4 August 1908, at the beginning of the
sixth year of our pontificate.

