____________________

[8]Missale Romanum - Promulgation of the Roman Missal Revised by Decree of
the Second Vatican Ecumentical Council, by Pope Paul VI, 3 April 1969

[9]official portrait of Pope Paul VI Paul, Bishop Servant of the
Servants of God For an Everlasting Memorial

The Missale Romanum was promulgated in 1570 by our predecessor Saint
Pius V, in execution of the decree of the Council of Trent. It has been
recognized by all as one of the many admirable results that the Council
achieved for the benefit of the entire Church of Christ. For four
centuries it provided Latin-rite priests with norms for the celebration
of the eucharistic sacrifice; moreover messengers of the Gospel brought
this Missal to almost the entire world. Innumerable holy men and women
nurtured their spiritual life on its readings from Scripture and on its
prayer texts. In large part these prayer texts owed their arrangement
to Saint Gregory the Great.

A deep interest in fostering the liturgy has become widespread and
strong among the Christian people and our predecessor Pius XII has
viewed this both as a sign of God's caring will regarding today's
people and as a saving movement of the Holy Spirit through his Church.
Since the beginning of this liturgical renewal, it has also become
clear that the formularies of the Roman Missal had to be revised and
enriched. A beginning was made by Pius XII in the restoration of the
Easter Vigil and Holy Week services; he thus took the first step toward
adapting the Roman Missal to the contemporary mentality.

The Second Vatican Ecumenical Council, in the Constitution Sacrosanctum
Concilium, laid down the basis for the general revision of the Roman
Missal: "Both texts and rites should be drawn up so that they express
more clearly the holy things they signify"; therefore, "the Order of
Mass is to be revised in such a way that the intrinsic nature and
purpose of its several parts, as also the connection between them, may
be more clearly brought out, and devout, active participation by the
faithful more easily achieved." The Council also decreed that "the
treasures of the Bible are to be opened up more lavishly, so that a
richer share in God's word may be provided for the faithful"; and
finally that "a new rite for concelebration is to be drawn up and
incorporated into the Roman Pontifical and Roman Missal."

No one should think, however, that this revision of the Roman Missal
has come out of nowhere. The progress in liturgical studies during the
last four centuries has certainly prepared the way. Just after the
Council of Trent, the study "of ancient manuscripts in the Vatican
library and elsewhere," as Saint Pius V attests in the Apostolic
Constitution Quo primum, helped greatly in the correction of the Roman
Missal. Since then, however, other ancient sources have been discovered
and published and liturgical formularies of the Eastern Church have
been studied. Accordingly many have had the desire for these doctrinal
and spiritual riches not to be stored away in the dark, but to be put
into use for the enlightenment of the mind of Christians and for the
nurture of their spirit.

Now, however, our purpose is to set out at least in broad terms, the
new plan of the Roman Missal. We therefore point out, first, that a
General Instruction, for use as a preface to the book, gives the new
regulations for the celebration of eucharistic sacrifice. These
regulations cover the rites to be carried out and the functions of each
minister or participant as well as the furnishings and the places
needed for divine worship.

It must be acknowledged that the chief innovation in the reform
concerns the eucharistic prayer. Although the Roman Rite over the
centuries allowed for a multiplicity of different texts in the first
part of the prayer (the preface), the second part, called the Canon
actionis, took on a fixed form during the period of the fourth and
fifth centuries. The Eastern liturgies, on the other hand, allowed a
degree of variety into the anaphoras themselves. On this point, first
of all, the eucharistic prayer has been enriched with a great number of
prefaces-drawn from the early tradition of the Roman Church or recently
composed-in order that the different facets of the mystery of salvation
will stand out more clearly and that there will be more and richer
themes of thanksgiving. But besides this, we have decided to add three
new canons to the eucharistic prayer. Both for pastoral reasons,
however, and for the facilitation of concelebration, we have ordered
that the words of the Lord be identical in each form of the canon. Thus
in each eucharistic prayer we wish those words to be as follows: over
the bread: Accipite et manducate ex hoc omnes: Hoc est enim Corpus
meum, quod pro vobis tradetur; over the chalice: Accipite et bibite ex
eo omnes: Hic est enim calix Sanguinis mei novi et aeterni testamenti,
qui pro vobis et pro multis effundetur in remissionem peccatorum. Hoc
facite in meam commemorationem. The words Mysterium fidei have been
removed from the context of Christ's own words and are spoken by the
priest as an introduction to the faithful's acclamation.

In the Order of Mass the rites have been "simplified, due care being
taken to preserve their substance." "Elements that, with the passage of
time, came to be duplicated or were added with but little advantage"
have been eliminated, especially in the rites for the presentation of
the bread and wine, the breaking of the bread, and communion.

Also, "other elements that have suffered injury through accident of
history" are restored "to the tradition of the Fathers," for example,
the homily, the general intercessions or prayer of the faithful, and
the penitential rite or act of reconciliation with God and the
community at the beginning of the Mass, which thus, as is right,
regains its proper importance.

According to the decree of the Second Vatican Council, that "a more
representative portion of the holy Scriptures be read to the people
over the course of a prescribed number of years," the Sunday readings
are arranged in a cycle of three years. In addition, on Sundays and all
the major feasts the epistle and gospel are preceded by an Old
Testament reading or, at Easter, by readings from Acts. This is meant
to provide a fuller exposition of the continuing process of the mystery
of salvation, as shown in the words of divine revelation. These broadly
selected biblical readings, which set before the faithful on Sundays
and holydays the most important part of sacred Scripture, are
complemented by other parts of the Bible read on other days.

All this has been planned to arouse among the faithful a greater hunger
for the word of God. Under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, this hunger
will seem, so to speak, to impel the people of the New Covenant toward
the perfect unity of the Church. We are fully confident that under this
arrangement both priest and faithful will prepare their minds and
hearts more devoutly for the Lord's Supper and that, meditating on the
Scriptures, they will be nourished more each day by the words of the
Lord. In accord with the teachings of the Second Vatican Council, all
will thus regard sacred Scripture as the abiding source of spiritual
life, the foundation for Christian instruction, and the core of all
theological study.

This reform of the Roman Missal, in addition to the three changes
already mentioned (the eucharistic prayer, the Order of Mass, and the
readings), has also corrected and considerably modified other of its
components: the Proper of Seasons, the Proper of Saints, the Common of
Saints, ritual Masses, and votive Masses. In all of these changes,
particular care has been taken with the prayers. Their number has been
increased, so that the new forms might better correspond to new needs,
and the text of older prayers has been restored on the basis of the
ancient sources. As a result, each weekday of the principal liturgical
seasons, Advent, Christmas, Lent, and Easter, now has its own, distinct
prayer.

The text of the Graduale Romanum has not been changed as far as the
music is concerned. In the interest of their being more readily
understood, however, the responsorial psalm (which Saint Augustine and
Saint Leo the Great often mention) as well as the entrance and
communion antiphons have been revised for use in Masses that are not
sung.

After what we have presented concerning the new Roman Missal, we wish
in conclusion to insist on one point in particular and to make it have
its effect. When he promulgated the editio princeps of the Roman
Missal, our predecessor Saint Pius V offered it to the people of Christ
as the instrument of liturgical unity and the expression of a pure and
reverent worship in the Church. Even though, in virtue of the decree of
the Second Vatican Council, we have accepted into the new Roman Missal
lawful variations and adaptations, our own expectation in no way
differs from that of our predecessor. It is that the faithful will
receive the new Missal as a help toward witnessing and strengthening
their unity with one another; that through the new Missal one and the
same prayer in a great diversity of languages will ascend, more
fragrant than any incense, to our heavenly Father, through our High
Priest, Jesus Christ, in the Holy Spirit.

The effective date for what we have prescribed in this Constitution
shall be the First Sunday of Advent of this year, 30 November.a We
decree that these laws and prescriptions be firm and effective now and
in the future, notwithstanding, to the extent necessary, the apostolic
constitutions and ordinances issued by our predecessors and other
prescriptions, even those deserving particular mention and amendment.

Given at Rome, at Saint Peter's, on Holy Thursday, 3 April 1969, the
sixth year of our pontificate.

