____________________

[8]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 11 November 2007 - Saint Martin of
Tours

[9]detail of a stained glass window of Saint Martin of Tours and the
Beggar, Holy Trinity Church, Skipton, England; swiped with permission
from the flickr account of Brother Lawrence Lew, OP

Dear Brothers and Sisters,

Today, 11 November, the Church remembers Saint Martin, Bishop of Tours,
one of the most celebrated and venerated Saints of Europe. Born of
pagan parents in Pannonia, in what is today Hungary, he was directed by
his father to a military career around the year 316. Still an
adolescent, Martin came into contact with Christianity and, overcoming
many difficulties, he enrolled as a catechumen in order to prepare for
Baptism. He would receive the Sacrament in his 20s, but he would still
stay for a long time in the army, where he would give testimony of his
new lifestyle: respectful and inclusive of all, he treated his
attendant as a brother and avoided vulgar entertainment. Leaving
military service, he went to Poitiers in France near the holy Bishop
Hilary. He was ordained a deacon and priest by him, chose the monastic
life and with some disciples established the oldest monastery known in
Europe at Ligugé. About 10 years later, the Christians of Tours, who
were without a Pastor, acclaimed him their Bishop. From that time,
Martin dedicated himself with ardent zeal to the evangelization of the
countryside and the formation of the clergy. While many miracles are
attributed to him, Saint Martin is known most of all for an act of
fraternal charity. While still a young soldier, he met a poor man on
the street numb and trembling from the cold. He then took his own cloak
and, cutting it in two with his sword, gave half to that man. Jesus
appeared to him that night in a dream smiling, dressed in the same
cloak.

Dear brothers and sisters, Saint Martin's charitable gesture flows from
the same logic that drove Jesus to multiply the loaves for the hungry
crowd, but most of all to leave himself to humanity as food in the
Eucharist, supreme Sign of God's love, Sacramentum caritatis. It is the
logic of sharing which he used to authentically explain love of
neighbour. May Saint Martin help us to understand that only by means of
a common commitment to sharing is it possible to respond to the great
challenge of our times: to build a world of peace and justice where
each person can live with dignity. This can be achieved if a world
model of authentic solidarity prevails which assures to all inhabitants
of the planet food, water, necessary medical treatment, and also work
and energy resources as well as cultural benefits, scientific and
technological knowledge.

Let us turn now to the Virgin Mary so that all Christians may be like
Saint Martin, generous witnesses of the Gospel of love and tireless
builders of jointly responsible sharing.

After the Angelus

I extend heartfelt greetings to the English-speaking visitors here
today. At this time the Church remembers Saint Martin of Tours, the
saintly monk and Bishop who was moved with such great compassion for
the sufferings of the poor. Recalling the occasion when he cut his
cloak in two and gave one half to a poor man, we resolve to follow his
example by sharing what we have with those less fortunate than
ourselves. Upon all of you, and upon your families and loved ones at
home, I invoke God's abundant Blessings.

