____________________

[8]Pope John Paul II - Redemptoris Custos - Guardian of the Redeemer - 15
August 1989

[9]Pope Saint John Paul II To Bishops, To Priests and Deacons, To Men
and Women Religious, and to all the Lay Faithful

1. "Joseph did as the angel of the Lord commanded him and took his
wife" (cf. Mt 1:24). Inspired by the Gospel, the Fathers of the Church
from the earliest centuries stressed that just as Saint Joseph took
loving care of Mary and gladly dedicated himself to Jesus Christ's
upbringing,[1] he likewise watches over and protects Christ's Mystical
Body, that is, the Church, of which the Virgin Mary is the exemplar and
model. On the occasion of the centenary of [10]Pope [11]Leo XIII`s
Encyclical Epistle Quamquam Pluries,[2] and in line with the veneration
given to Saint Joseph over the centuries, I wish to offer for your
consideration, dear brothers and sisters, some reflections concerning
him "into whose custody God entrusted his most precious treasures."[3]
I gladly fulfill this pastoral duty so that all may grow in devotion to
the Patron of the Universal Church and in love for the Savior whom he
served in such an exemplary manner. In this way the whole Christian
people not only will turn to Saint Joseph with greater fervor and
invoke his patronage with trust, but also will always keep before their
eyes his humble, mature way of serving and of "taking part" in the plan
of salvation.[4] I am convinced that by reflection upon the way that
Mary's spouse shared in the divine mystery, the Church - on the road
towards the future with all of humanity - will be enabled to discover
ever anew her own identity within this redemptive plan, which is
founded on the mystery of the Incarnation. This is precisely the
mystery in which Joseph of Nazareth "shared" like no other human being
except Mary, the Mother of the Incarnate Word. He shared in it with
her; he was involved in the same salvific event; he was the guardian of
the same love, through the power of which the eternal Father "destined
us to be his sons through Jesus Christ" (Eph 1:5).

2. "Joseph, Son of David, do not fear to take Mary your wife, for that
which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit; she will bear a son,
and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from
their sins" (Mt 1:20-21). In these words we find the core of biblical
truth about Saint Joseph; they refer to that moment in his life to
which the Fathers of the Church make special reference. The Evangelist
Matthew explains the significance of this moment while also describing
how Joseph lived it. However, in order to understand fully both its
content and context, it is important to keep in mind the parallel
passage in the Gospel of Luke. In Matthew we read: "Now the birth of
Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been
betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found to be with
child of the Holy Spirit" (Mt 1:18). However, the origin of Mary's
pregnancy "of the Holy Spirit" is described more fully and explicitly
in what Luke tells us about the annunciation of Jesus' birth: "The
angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to
a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of
David; and the virgin's name was Mary" (Lk 1:26-27). The angel's
greeting: "Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with you" (Lk 1:28) created
an inner turmoil in Mary and also moved her to reflect. Then the
messenger reassured the Virgin and at the same time revealed God's
special plan for her: "Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor
with God . And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son,
and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, and will be called
the Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give to him the throne
of his father David" (Lk 1:30-32). A little earlier the Gospel writer
had stated that at the moment of the Annunciation, Mary was "betrothed
to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David." The nature of
this "marriage" is explained indirectly when Mary, after hearing what
the messenger says about the birth of the child, asks, "How can this
be, since I do not know man ? " (Lk 1:34) The angel responds: "The Holy
Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will
overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be called holy, the
Son of God" (Lk 1:35). Although Mary is already "wedded" to Joseph, she
will remain a virgin, because the child conceived in her at the
Annunciation was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit. At this
point Luke's text coincides with Matthew 1:18 and serves to explain
what we read there. If, after her marriage to Joseph, Mary "is found to
be with child of the Holy Spirit," this fact corresponds to all that
the Annunciation means, in particular to Mary's final words: "Let it be
to me according to your word" (Lk 1:38). In response to what is clearly
the plan of God, with the passing of days and weeks Mary's "pregnancy"
is visible to the people and to Joseph; she appears before them as one
who must give birth and carry within herself the mystery of motherhood.

3. In these circumstances, "her husband Joseph, being a just man and
unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to send her away quietly" (Mt
1:19). He did not know how to deal with Mary's "astonishing"
motherhood. He certainly sought an answer to this unsettling question,
but above all he sought a way out of what was for him a difficult
situation. "But as he considered this, behold, an angel of the Lord
appeared to him in a dream, saying, `Joseph, son of David, do not fear
to take Mary your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the
Holy Spirit; she will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus,
for he will save his people from their sins' " (Mt 1:2021). There is a
strict parallel between the "annunciation" in Matthew's text and the
one in Luke. The divine messenger introduces Joseph to the mystery of
Mary's motherhood. While remaining a virgin, she who by law is his
"spouse" has become a mother through the power of the Holy Spirit. And
when the Son in Mary's womb comes into the world, he must receive the
name Jesus. This was a name known among the Israelites and sometimes
given to their sons. In this case, however, it is the Son who, in
accordance with the divine promise, will bring to perfect fulfillment
the meaning of the name Jesus - Yehos ua' - which means "God saves."
Joseph is visited by the messenger as "Mary's spouse," as the one who
in due time must give this name to the Son to be born of the Virgin of
Nazareth who is married to him. It is to Joseph, then, that the
messenger turns, entrusting to him the responsibilities of an earthly
father with regard to Mary's Son. "When Joseph woke from sleep, he did
as the angel of the Lord commanded him and took Mary as his wife" (cf.
Mt 1:24). He took her in all the mystery of her motherhood. He took her
together with the Son who had come into the world by the power of the
Holy Spirit. In this way he showed a readiness of will like Mary's with
regard to what God asked of him through the angel.

4. When, soon after the Annunciation, Mary went to the house of
Zechariah to visit her kinswoman Elizabeth, even as she offered her
greeting she heard the words of Elizabeth, who was "filled with the
Holy Spirit" (Lk 1:41). Besides offering a salutation which recalled
that of the angel at the Annunciation, Elizabeth also said: "and
blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what
was spoken to her from the Lord" (Lk 1:45). These words were the
guiding thought of the Encyclical Redemptoris Mater, in which I sought
to deepen the teaching of the Second Vatican Council, which stated:
"The Blessed Virgin advanced in her pilgrimage of faith, and faithfully
preserved her union with her Son even to the cross,"[5] "preceding"[6]
all those who follow Christ by faith. Now at the beginning of this
pilgrimage, the faith of Mary meets the faith of Joseph. If Elizabeth
said of the Redeemer's Mother, "blessed is she who believed," in a
certain sense this blessedness can be referred to Joseph as well, since
he responded positively to the word of God when it was communicated to
him at the decisive moment. While it is true that Joseph did not
respond to the angel's "announcement" in the same way as Mary, he "did
as the angel of the Lord commanded him and took his wife." What he did
is the clearest "obedience of faith" (cf. Rom 1:5; 16:26; 2 Cor
10:5-6). One can say that what Joseph did united him in an altogether
special way to the faith of Mary. He accepted as truth coming from God
the very thing that she had already accepted at the Annunciation. The
Council teaches: " "The obedience of faith' must be given to God as he
reveals himself. By this obedience of faith man freely commits himself
entirely to God, making `the full submission of his intellect and will
to God who reveals,' and willingly assenting to the revelation given by
him."[7] This statement, which touches the very essence of faith, is
perfectly applicable to Joseph of Nazareth.

5. Therefore he became a unique guardian of the mystery "hidden for
ages in God" (Eph 3:9), as did Mary, in that decisive moment which
Saint Paul calls "the fullness of time," when "God sent forth his Son,
born of woman...to redeem those who were under the law, so that we
might receive adoption as sons" (Gal 4:4-5). In the words of the
Council: "It pleased God, in his goodness and wisdom, to reveal himself
and to make known the mystery of his will (cf. Eph 1:9). His will was
that men should have access to the Father, through Christ, the Word
made flesh, in the Holy Spirit, and become sharers in the divine nature
(cf. Eph 2:18; 2 Pt 1 4)"[8] Together with Mary, Joseph is the first
guardian of this divine mystery. Together with Mary, and in relation to
Mary, he shares in this final phase of God `s self-revelation in
Christ, and he does so from the very beginning. Looking at the gospel
texts of both Matthew and Luke, one can also say that Joseph is the
first to share in the faith of the Mother of God, and that in doing so
he supports his spouse in the faith of the divine annunciation. He is
also the first to be placed by God on the path of Mary's "pilgrimage of
faith." It is a path along which - especially at the time of Calvary
and Pentecost - Mary will precede in a perfect way.[9]

6. The path that was Joseph's - his pilgrimage of faith - ended first,
that is to say, before Mary stood at the foot of the cross on Golgotha,
and before the time after Christ returned to the Father, when she was
present in the upper room on Pentecost, the day the Church was
manifested to the world, having been born in the power of the Spirit of
truth. Nevertheless, Joseph's way of faith moved in the same direction:
it was totally determined by the same mystery, of which he, together
with Mary, had been the first guardian. The Incarnation and Redemption
constitute an organic and indissoluble unity, in which "the plan of
revelation is realized by words and deeds which are intrinsically bound
up with each other."[10] Precisely because of this unity, Pope John
XXIII, who had a great devotion to Saint Joseph, directed that Joseph's
name be inserted in the Roman Canon of the Mass - which is the
perpetual memorial of redemption - after the name of Mary and before
the apostles, popes and martyrs.[11]

7. As can be deduced from the gospel texts, Joseph's marriage to Mary
is the juridical basis of his fatherhood. It was to assure fatherly
protection for Jesus that God chose Joseph to be Mary's spouse. It
follows that Joseph's fatherhood - a relationship that places him as
close as possible to Christ, to whom every election and predestination
is ordered (cf. Rom 8:28-29) - comes to pass through marriage to Mary,
that is, through the family. While clearly affirming that Jesus was
conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit, and that virginity remained
intact in the marriage (cf. Mt 1:18-25; Lk 1:26-38), the evangelists
refer to Joseph as Mary's husband and to Mary as his wife (cf. Mt 1:16,
18-20, 24; Lk 1:27; 2:5). And while it is important for the Church to
profess the virginal conception of Jesus, it is no less important to
uphold Mary's marriage to Joseph, because juridically Joseph's
fatherhood depends on it. Thus one understands why the generations are
listed according to the genealogy of Joseph: "Why," Saint Augustine
asks, "should they not be according to Joseph? Was he not Mary's
husband?... Scripture states, through the authority of an angel, that
he was her husband. Do not fear, says the angel, to take Mary your
wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. Joseph
was told to name the child, although not born from his seed. She will
bear a son, the angel says, and you will call him Jesus. Scripture
recognizes that Jesus is not born of Joseph's seed, since in his
concern about the origin of Mary's pregnancy, Joseph is told that it is
of the Holy Spirit. Nonetheless, he is not deprived of his fatherly
authority from the moment that he is told to name the child. Finally,
even the Virgin Mary, well aware that she has not conceived Christ as a
result of conjugal relations with Joseph, still calls him Christ's
father."[12] The Son of Mary is also Joseph's Son by virtue of the
marriage bond that unites them: "By reason of their faithful marriage
both of them deserve to be called Christ's parents, not only his
mother, but also his father, who was a parent in the same way that he
was the mother's spouse: in mind, not in the flesh."[13] In this
marriage none of the requisites of marriage were lacking: "In Christ's
parents all the goods of marriage were realized - offspring, fidelity,
the sacrament: the offspring being the Lord Jesus himself; fidelity,
since there was no adultery: the sacrament, since there was no
divorce."[14] Analyzing the nature of marriage, both Saint Augustine
and Saint Thomas always identify it with an "indivisible union of
souls," a "union of hearts," with "consent."[15] These elements are
found in an exemplary manner in the marriage of Mary and Joseph. At the
culmination of the history of salvation, when God reveals his love for
humanity through the gift of the Word, it is precisely the marriage of
Mary and Joseph that brings to realization in full "freedom" the
"spousal gift of self" in receiving and expressing such a love.[16] "In
this great undertaking which is the renewal of all things in Christ,
marriage - it too purified and renewed - becomes a new reality, a
sacrament of the New Covenant. We see that at the beginning of the New
Testament, as at the beginning of the Old, there is a married couple.
But whereas Adam and Eve were the source of evil which was unleashed on
the world, Joseph and Mary are the summit from which holiness spreads
all over the earth. The Savior began the work of salvation by this
virginal and holy union, wherein is manifested his all-powerful will to
purify and sanctify the family - that sanctuary of love and cradle of
life."[17] How much the family of today can learn from this! "The
essence and role of the family are in the final analysis specified by
love. Hence the family has the mission to guard, reveal and communicate
love, and this is a living reflection of and a real sharing in God's
love for humanity and the love of Christ the Lord for the Church his
bride."[18] This being the case, it is in the Holy Family, the original
"Church in miniature (Ecclesia domestica),"[19] that every Christian
family must be reflected. "Through God's mysterious design, it was in
that family that the Son of God spent long years of a hidden life. It
is therefore the prototype and example for all Christian families."[20]

8. Saint Joseph was called by God to serve the person and mission of
Jesus directly through the exercise of his fatherhood. It is precisely
in this way that, as the Church's Liturgy teaches, he "cooperated in
the fullness of time in the great mystery of salvation" and is truly a
"minister of salvation."[21]l His fatherhood is expressed concretely
"in his having made his life a service, a sacrifice to the mystery of
the Incarnation and to the redemptive mission connected with it; in
having used the legal authority which was his over the Holy Family in
order to make a total gift of self, of his life and work; in having
turned his human vocation to domestic love into a superhuman oblation
of self, an oblation of his heart and all his abilities into love
placed at the service of the Messiah growing up in his house."[22] In
recalling that "the beginnings of our redemption" were entrusted "to
the faithful care of Joseph,"[23] the Liturgy specifies that "God
placed him at the head of his family, as a faithful and prudent
servant, so that with fatherly care he might watch over his only
begotten Son."[24] [12]Leo XIII emphasized the sublime nature of this
mission: "He among all stands out in his august dignity, since by
divine disposition he was guardian, and according to human opinion,
father of God's Son. Whence it followed that the Word of God was
subjected to Joseph, he obeyed him and rendered to him that honor and
reverence that children owe to their father."[25] Since it is
inconceivable that such a sublime task would not be matched by the
necessary qualities to adequately fulfill it, we must recognize that
Joseph showed Jesus "by a special gift from heaven, all the natural
love, all the affectionate solicitude that a father's heart can
know."[26] Besides fatherly authority over Jesus, God also gave Joseph
a share in the corresponding love, the love that has its origin in the
Father "from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named" (Eph
3:15). The Gospels clearly describe the fatherly responsibility of
Joseph toward Jesus. For salvation - which comes through the humanity
of Jesus - is realized in actions which are an everyday part of family
life, in keeping with that "condescension" which is inherent in the
economy of the Incarnation. The gospel writers carefully show how in
the life of Jesus nothing was left to chance, but how everything took
place according to God's predetermined plan. The oft-repeated formula,
"This happened, so that there might be fulfilled...," in reference to a
particular event in the Old Testament, serves to emphasize the unity
and continuity of the plan which is fulfilled in Christ. With the
Incarnation, the "promises" and "figures" of the Old Testament become
"reality": places, persons, events and rites interrelate according to
precise divine commands communicated by angels and received by
creatures who are particularly sensitive to the voice of God. Mary is
the Lord's humble servant, prepared from eternity for the task of being
the Mother of God. Joseph is the one whom God chose to be the "overseer
of the Lord's birth,"[27] the one who has the responsibility to look
after the Son of God's "ordained" entry into the world, in accordance
with divine dispositions and human laws. All of the so-called "private"
or "hidden" life of Jesus is entrusted to Joseph's guardianship.

9. Journeying to Bethlehem for the census in obedience to the orders of
legitimate authority, Joseph fulfilled for the child the significant
task of officially inserting the name "Jesus, son of Joseph of
Nazareth" (cf. Jn 1:45) in the registry of the Roman Empire. This
registration clearly shows that Jesus belongs to the human race as a
man among men, a citizen of this world, subject to laws and civil
institutions, but also "savior of the world." [13]Origen gives a good
description of the theological significance, by no means marginal, of
this historical fact: -"Since the first census of the whole world took
place under Caesar Augustus, and among all the others Joseph too went
to register together with Mary his wife, who was with child, and since
Jesus was born before the census was completed: to the person who makes
a careful examination it will appear that a kind of mystery is
expressed in the fact that at the time when all people in the world
presented themselves to be counted, Christ too should be counted. By
being registered with everyone, he could sanctify everyone; inscribed
with the whole world in the census, he offered to the world communion
with himself, and after presenting himself he wrote all the people of
the world in the book of the living, so that as many as believed in him
could then be written in heaven with the saints of God, to whom be
glory and power for ever and ever. Amen."[28]

10. As guardian of the mystery "hidden for ages in the mind of God,"
which begins to unfold before his eyes "in the fullness of time,"
Joseph, together with Mary, is a privileged witness to the birth of the
Son of God into the world on Christmas night in Bethlehem. Luke writes:
`And while they were there, the time came for her to be delivered. And
she gave birth to her first-born son and wrapped him in swaddling
cloths, and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for them
in the inn" (Lk 2:6-7). Joseph was an eyewitness to this birth, which
took place in conditions that, humanly speaking, were embarrassing - a
first announcement of that "self-emptying" (cf. Phil 2:5-8) which
Christ freely accepted for the forgiveness of sins. Joseph also
witnessed the adoration of the shepherds who arrived at Jesus'
birthplace after the angel had brought them the great and happy news
(cf. Lk 2:15-16). Later he also witnessed the homage of the magi who
came from the East (cf. Mt 2:11).

11. A son's circumcision was the first religious obligation of a
father, and with this ceremony (cf. Lk 2:21) Joseph exercised his right
and duty with regard to Jesus. The principle which holds that all the
rites of the Old Testament are a shadow of the reality (cf. Heb 9:9f;
10:1) serves to explain why Jesus would accept them. As with all the
other rites, circumcision too is "fulfilled" in Jesus. God's covenant
with Abraham, of which circumcision was the sign (cf. Gn 17:13),
reaches its full effect and perfect realization in Jesus, who is the
"yes" of all the ancient promises (cf. 2 Cor 1:20).

12. At the circumcision Joseph names the child "Jesus." This is the
only name in which there is salvation (cf. Acts 4:12). Its significance
had been revealed to Joseph at the moment of his "annunciation": "You
shall call the child Jesus, for he will save his people from their
sins" (cf. Mt 1:21). In conferring the name, Joseph declares his own
legal fatherhood over Jesus, and in speaking the name he proclaims the
child's mission as Savior.

13. This rite, to which Luke refers (2:22ff.), includes the ransom of
the first-born and sheds light on the subsequent stay of Jesus in the
Temple at the age of twelve. The ransoming of the first-born is another
obligation of the father, and it is fulfilled by Joseph. Represented in
the first-born is the people of the covenant, ransomed from slavery in
order to belong to God. Here too, Jesus - who is the true "price" of
ransom (cf. 1 Cor 6:20; 7:23; 1 Pt 1:19) - not only "fulfills" the Old
Testament rite, but at the same time transcends it, since he is not a
subject to be redeemed, but the very author of redemption. The gospel
writer notes that "his father and his mother marveled at what was said
about him" (Lk 2:23), in particular at what Simeon said in his canticle
to God, when he referred to Jesus as the "salvation which you have
prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light for revelation to the
Gentiles, and for glory to your people Israel" and as a "sign that is
spoken against" (cf. Lk 2:30-34).

14. After the presentation in the Temple the Evangelist Luke notes:
"And when they had performed everything according to the law of the
Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city, Nazareth. And the
child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom; and the favor of God
was upon him" (Lk 2:39-40). But according to Matthew's text, a very
important event took place before the return to Galilee, an event in
which divine providence once again had recourse to Joseph. We read:
"Now when [the magi] had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord
appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, `Rise, take the child and his
mother, and flee to Egypt, and remain there till I tell you; for Herod
is about to search for the child, to destroy him'" (Mt 2:13). Herod
learned from the magi who came from the East about the birth of the
"king of the Jews" (Mt 2:2). And when the magi departed, he "sent and
killed all the male children in Bethlehem and in all that region who
were two years old or under" (Mt 2:16). By killing them all, he wished
to kill the new-born "king of the Jews" whom he had heard about. And
so, Joseph, having been warned in a dream, "took the child and his
mother by night, and departed to Egypt, and remained there until the
death of Herod. This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the
prophet, `Out of Egypt have I called my son'" (Mt 2:14-15; cf. Hos
11:1). And so Jesus' way back to Nazareth from Bethlehem passed through
Egypt. Just as Israel had followed the path of the exodus "from the
condition of slavery" in order to begin the Old Covenant, so Joseph,
guardian and cooperator in the providential mystery of God, even in
exile watched over the one who brings about the New Covenant.

15. From the time of the Annunciation, both Joseph and Mary found
themselves, in a certain sense, at the heart of the mystery hidden for
ages in the mind of God, a mystery which had taken on flesh: "The Word
became flesh and dwelt among us" (Jn 1:14). He dwelt among men, within
the surroundings of the Holy Family of Nazareth - one of many families
in this small town in Galilee, one of the many families of the land of
Israel. There Jesus "grew and became strong, filled with wisdom; and
the favor of God was upon him" (Lk 2:40). The Gospels summarize in a
few words the long period of the "hidden" life, during which Jesus
prepared himself for his messianic mission. Only one episode from this
"hidden time" is described in the Gospel of Luke: the Passover in
Jerusalem when Jesus was twelve years old. Together with Mary and
Joseph, Jesus took part in the feast as a young pilgrim. "And when the
feast was ended, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in
Jerusalem. His parents did not know it" (Lk 2:43). After a day's
journey, they noticed his absence and began to search "among their
kinsfolk and acquaintances." "After three days they found him in the
temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them
questions; and all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and
his answers" (Lk 2:47). Mary asked: "Son, why have you treated us so?
Behold, your father and I have been looking for you anxiously" (Lk
2:48). The answer Jesus gave was such that "they did not understand the
saying which he spoke to them." He had said, "How is it that you sought
me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father's house?" (Lk 2:49-50)
Joseph, of whom Mary had just used the words "your father," heard this
answer. That, after all, is what all the people said and thought: Jesus
was "the son (as was supposed) of Joseph" (Lk 3:23). Nonetheless, the
reply of Jesus in the Temple brought once again to the mind of his
"presumed father" what he had heard on that night twelve years earlier:
"Joseph...do not fear to take Mary your wife, for that which is
conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit." From that time onwards he knew
that he was a guardian of the mystery of God, and it was precisely this
mystery that the twelve-year-old Jesus brought to mind: "I must be in
my Father's house."

16. The growth of Jesus "in wisdom and in stature, and in favor with
God and man" (Lk 2:52) took place within the Holy Family under the eyes
of Joseph, who had the important task of "raising" Jesus, that is,
feeding, clothing and educating him in the Law and in a trade, in
keeping with the duties of a father. In the Eucharistic Sacrifice, the
Church venerates the memory of Mary the ever Virgin Mother of God and
the memory of Saint Joseph,[29] because "he fed him whom the faithful
must eat as the bread of eternal life."[30] For his part, Jesus "was
obedient to them" (Lk 2:51), respectfully returning the affection of
his "parents." In this way he wished to sanctify the obligations of the
family and of work, which he performed at the side of Joseph.

17. In the course of that pilgrimage of faith which was his life,
Joseph, like Mary, remained faithful to God's call until the end. While
Mary's life was the bringing to fullness of that fiat first spoken at
the Annunciation, at the moment of Joseph's own "annunciation" he said
nothing; instead he simply "did as the angel of the Lord commanded him"
(Mt 1:24). And this first "doing " became the beginning of "Joseph's
way." The Gospels do not record any word ever spoken by Joseph along
that way. But the silence of Joseph has its own special eloquence, for
thanks to that silence we can understand the truth of the Gospel's
judgment that he was "a just man" (Mt 1:19). One must come to
understand this truth, for it contains one of the most important
testimonies concerning man and his vocation. Through many generations
the Church has read this testimony with ever greater attention and with
deeper understanding, drawing, as it were, "what is new and what is
old" (Mt 13:52) from the storehouse of the noble figure of Joseph.

18. Above all, the "just" man of Nazareth possesses the clear
characteristics of a husband. Luke refers to Mary as "a virgin
betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph" (Lk 1:27). Even before the
"mystery hidden for ages" (Eph 3:9) began to be fulfilled, the Gospels
set before us the image of husband and wife. According to Jewish
custom, marriage took place in two stages: first, the legal, or true
marriage was celebrated, and then, only after a certain period of time,
the husband brought the wife into his own house. Thus, before he lived
with Mary, Joseph was already her "husband." Mary, however, preserved
her deep desire to give herself exclusively to God. One may well ask
how this desire of Mary's could be reconciled with a "wedding." The
answer can only come from the saving events as they unfold, from the
special action of God himself. From the moment of the Annunciation,
Mary knew that she was to fulfill her virginal desire to give herself
exclusively and fully to God precisely by becoming the Mother of God's
Son. Becoming a Mother by the power of the Holy Spirit was the form
taken by her gift of self: a form which God himself expected of the
Virgin Mary, who was "betrothed" to Joseph. Mary uttered her fiat. The
fact that Mary was "betrothed" to Joseph was part of the very plan of
God. This is pointed out by Luke and especially by Matthew. The words
spoken to Joseph are very significant: "Do not fear to take Mary your
wife, for that which has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit"
(Mt 1:20). These words explain the mystery of Joseph's wife: In her
motherhood Mary is a virgin. In her, "the Son of the Most High" assumed
a human body and became "the Son of Man." Addressing Joseph through the
words of the angel, God speaks to him as the husband of the Virgin of
Nazareth. What took place in her through the power of the Holy Spirit
also confirmed in a special way the marriage bond which already existed
between Joseph and Mary. God's messenger was clear in what he said to
Joseph: "Do not fear to take Mary your wife into your home." Hence,
what had taken place earlier, namely, Joseph's marriage to Mary,
happened in accord with God's will and was meant to endure. In her
divine motherhood Mary had to continue to live as "a virgin, the wife
of her husband" (cf. Lk 1:27).

19. In the words of the "annunciation" by night, Joseph not only heard
the divine truth concerning his wife's indescribable vocation; he also
heard once again the truth about his own vocation. This "just" man,
who, in the spirit of the noblest traditions of the Chosen People,
loved the Virgin of Nazareth and was bound to her by a husband's love,
was once again called by God to this love. "Joseph did as the angel of
the Lord commanded him; he took his wife" into his home (Mt 1:24); what
was conceived in Mary was "of the Holy Spirit." From expressions such
as these are we not to suppose that his love as a man was also given
new birth by the Holy Spirit? Are we not to think that the love of God
which has been poured forth into the human heart through the Holy
Spirit (cf. Rm 5:5) molds every human love to perfection? This love of
God also molds - in a completely unique way - the love of husband and
wife, deepening within it everything of human worth and beauty,
everything that bespeaks an exclusive gift of self, a covenant between
persons, and an authentic communion according to the model of the
Blessed Trinity. "Joseph. . .took his wife; but he knew her not, until
she had borne a son" (Mt 1:24-25). These words indicate another kind of
closeness in marriage. The deep spiritual closeness arising from
marital union and the interpersonal contact between man and woman have
their definitive origin in the Spirit, the Giver of Life (cf. Jn 6:63).
Joseph, in obedience to the Spirit, found in the Spirit the source of
love, the conjugal love which he experienced as a man. And this love
proved to be greater than this "just man" could ever have expected
within the limits of his human heart.

20. In the Liturgy, Mary is celebrated as "united to Joseph, the just
man, by a bond of marital and virginal love."[31] There are really two
kinds of love here, both of which together represent the mystery of the
Church - virgin and spouse - as symbolized in the marriage of Mary and
Joseph. "Virginity or celibacy for the sake of the Kingdom of God not
only does not contradict the dignity of marriage but presupposes and
confirms it. Marriage and virginity are two ways of expressing and
living the one mystery of the Covenant of God with his people,"[32] the
Covenant which is a communion of love between God and human beings.
Through his complete self-sacrifice, Joseph expressed his generous love
for the Mother of God, and gave her a husband's "gift of self." Even
though he decided to draw back so as not to interfere in the plan of
God which was coming to pass in Mary, Joseph obeyed the explicit
command of the angel and took Mary into his home, while respecting the
fact that she belonged exclusively to God. On the other hand, it was
from his marriage to Mary that Joseph derived his singular dignity and
his rights in regard to Jesus. "It is certain that the dignity of the
Mother of God is so exalted that nothing could be more sublime; yet
because Mary was united to Joseph by the bond of marriage, there can be
no doubt but that Joseph approached as no other person ever could that
eminent dignity whereby the Mother of God towers above all creatures.
Since marriage is the highest degree of association and friendship,
involving by its very nature a communion of goods, it follows that God,
by giving Joseph to the Virgin, did not give him to her only as a
companion for life, a witness of her virginity and protector of her
honor: he also gave Joseph to Mary in order that he might share,
through the marriage pact, in her own sublime greatness."[33]

21. This bond of charity was the core of the Holy Family's life, first
in the poverty of Bethlehem, then in their exile in Egypt, and later in
the house of Nazareth. The Church deeply venerates this Family, and
proposes it as the model of all families. Inserted directly in the
mystery of the Incarnation, the Family of Nazareth has its own special
mystery. And in this mystery, as in the Incarnation, one finds a true
fatherhood: the human form of the family of the Son of God, a true
human family, formed by the divine mystery. In this family, Joseph is
the father: his fatherhood is not one that derives from begetting
offspring; but neither is it an "apparent" or merely "substitute"
fatherhood. Rather, it is one that fully shares in authentic human
fatherhood and the mission of a father in the family. This is a
consequence of the hypostatic union: humanity taken up into the unity
of the Divine Person of the Word-Son, Jesus Christ. Together with human
nature, all that is human, and especially the family - as the first
dimension of man's existence in the world - is also taken up in Christ.
Within this context, Joseph's human fatherhood was also "taken up" in
the mystery of Christ's Incarnation. On the basis of this principle,
the words which Mary spoke to the twelve-year-old Jesus in the Temple
take on their full significance: "Your father and l.. .have been
looking for you." This is no conventional phrase: Mary's words to Jesus
show the complete reality of the Incarnation present in the mystery of
the Family of Nazareth. From the beginning, Joseph accepted with the
"obedience of faith" his human fatherhood over Jesus. And thus,
following the light of the Holy Spirit who gives himself to human
beings through faith, he certainly came to discover ever more fully the
indescribable gift that was his human fatherhood.

22. Work was the daily expression of love in the life of the Family of
Nazareth. The Gospel specifies the kind of work Joseph did in order to
support his family: he was a carpenter. This simple word sums up
Joseph's entire life. For Jesus, these were hidden years, the years to
which Luke refers after recounting the episode that occurred in the
Temple: "And he went down with them and came to Nazareth, and was
obedient to them" (Lk 2:51). This "submission" or obedience of Jesus in
the house of Nazareth should be understood as a sharing in the work of
Joseph. Having learned the work of his presumed father, he was known as
"the carpenter's son." If the Family of Nazareth is an example and
model for human families, in the order of salvation and holiness, so
too, by analogy, is Jesus' work at the side of Joseph the carpenter. In
our own day, the Church has emphasized this by instituting the
liturgical memorial of Saint Joseph the Worker on May 1. Human work,
and especially manual labor, receive special prominence in the Gospel.
Along with the humanity of the Son of God, work too has been taken up
in the mystery of the Incarnation, and has also been redeemed in a
special way. At the workbench where he plied his trade together with
Jesus, Joseph brought human work closer to the mystery of the
Redemption.

23. In the human growth of Jesus "in wisdom, age and grace," the virtue
of industriousness played a notable role, since "work is a human good"
which "transforms nature" and makes man "in a sense, more human."[34]
The importance of work in human life demands that its meaning be known
and assimilated in order to "help all people to come closer to God, the
Creator and Redeemer, to participate in his salvific plan for man and
the world, and to deepen...friendship with Christ in their lives, by
accepting, through faith, a living participation in his threefold
mission as Priest, Prophet and King."[35]

24. What is crucially important here is the sanctification of daily
life, a sanctification which each person must acquire according to his
or her own state, and one which can be promoted according to a model
accessible to all people: "St. Joseph is the model of those humble ones
that Christianity raises up to great destinies;...he is the proof that
in order to be a good and genuine follower of Christ, there is no need
of great things - it is enough to have the common, simple and human
virtues, but they need to be true and authentic."[36]

25. The same aura of silence that envelops everything else about Joseph
also shrouds his work as a carpenter in the house of Nazareth. It is,
however, a silence that reveals in a special way the inner portrait of
the man. The Gospels speak exclusively of what Joseph "did." Still,
they allow us to discover in his "actions" - shrouded in silence as
they are - an aura of deep contemplation. This explains, for example,
why Saint Teresa of Jesus, the great reformer of the [14]Carmelites,
promoted the renewal of veneration to Saint Joseph in Western
Christianity.

26. The total sacrifice, whereby Joseph surrendered his whole existence
to the demands of the Messiah's coming into his home, becomes
understandable only in the light of his profound interior life. It was
from this interior life that "very singular commands and consolations
came, bringing him also the logic and strength that belong to simple
and clear souls, and giving him the power of making great decisions -
such as the decision to put his liberty immediately at the disposition
of the divine designs, to make over to them also his legitimate human
calling, his conjugal happiness, to accept the conditions, the
responsibility and the burden of a family, but, through an incomparable
virginal love, to renounce that natural conjugal love that is the
foundation and[37] nourishment of the family. This submission to God,
this readiness of will to dedicate oneself to all that serves him, is
really nothing less than that exercise of devotion which constitutes
one expression of the virtue of religion.[38]

27. The communion of life between Joseph and Jesus leads us to consider
once again the mystery of the Incarnation, precisely in reference to
the humanity of Jesus as the efficacious instrument of his divinity for
the purpose of sanctifying man: "By virtue of his divinity, Christ's
human actions were salvific for us, causing grace within us, either by
merit or by a certain efficacy."[39] Among those actions, the gospel
writers highlight those which have to do with the Paschal Mystery, but
they also underscore the importance of physical contact with Jesus for
healing (cf. for example, Mk 1:41), and the influence Jesus exercised
upon John the Baptist when they were both in their mothers' wombs (cf.
Lk 1:41-44). As we have seen, the apostolic witness did not neglect the
story of Jesus' birth, his circumcision, his presentation in the
Temple, his flight into Egypt and his hidden life in Nazareth. It
recognized the "mystery" of grace present in each of these saving
"acts," inasmuch as they all share the same source of love: the
divinity of Christ. If through Christ's humanity this love shone on all
mankind, the first beneficiaries were undoubtedly those whom the divine
will had most intimately associated with itself: Mary, the Mother of
Jesus, and Joseph, his presumed father.[40] Why should the "fatherly"
love of Joseph not have had an influence upon the "filial" love of
Jesus? And vice versa, why should the "filial" love of Jesus not have
had an influence upon the "fatherly" love of Joseph, thus leading to a
further deepening of their unique relationship? Those souls most
sensitive to the impulses of divine love have rightly seen in Joseph a
brilliant example of the interior life. Furthermore, in Joseph, the
apparent tension between the active and the contemplative life finds an
ideal harmony that is only possible for those who possess the
perfection of charity. Following Saint Augustine's well-known
distinction between the love of the truth (caritas veritatis) and the
practical demands of love (necessitas caritatis),[41] we can say that
Joseph experienced both love of the truth - that pure contemplative
love of the divine Truth which radiated from the humanity of Christ -
and the demands of love - that equally pure and selfless love required
for his vocation to safeguard and develop the humanity of Jesus, which
was inseparably linked to his divinity.

28. At a difficult time in the Church's history, Pope Pius IX, wishing
to place her under the powerful patronage of the holy patriarch Joseph,
declared him "Patron of the Catholic Church."[42] For Pius IX this was
no idle gesture, since by virtue of the sublime dignity which God has
granted to his most faithful servant Joseph, "the Church, after the
Blessed Virgin, his spouse, has always held him in great honor and
showered him with praise, having recourse to him amid
tribulations."[43] What are the reasons for such great confidence?
[15]Leo XIII explained it in this way: "The reasons why Saint Joseph
must be considered the special patron of the Church, and the Church in
turn draws exceeding hope from his care and patronage, chiefly arise
from his having been the husband of Mary and the presumed father of
Jesus..., Joseph was in his day the lawful and natural guardian, head
and defender of the Holy Family.... It is thus fitting and most worthy
of Joseph's dignity that, in the same way that he once kept unceasing
holy watch over the family of Nazareth, so now does he protect and
defend with his heavenly patronage the Church of Christ."[44]

29. This patronage must be invoked as ever necessary for the Church,
not only as a defense against all dangers, but also, and indeed
primarily, as an impetus for her renewed commitment to evangelization
in the world and to re-evangelization in those lands and nations where
- as I wrote in the Apostolic Exhortation Christifideles Laici -
"religion and the Christian life were formerly flourishing and...are
now put to a hard test."[45] In order to bring the first proclamation
of Christ, or to bring it anew wherever it has been neglected or
forgotten, the Church has need of special "power from on high" (cf. Lk
24:49; Acts 1:8): a gift of the Spirit of the Lord, a gift which is not
unrelated to the intercession and example of his saints.

30. Besides trusting in Joseph's sure protection, the Church also
trusts in his noble example, which transcends all individual states of
life and serves as a model for the entire Christian community, whatever
the condition and duties of each of its members may be. As the
Constitution on Divine Revelation of the Second Vatican Council has
said, the basic attitude of the entire Church must be that of "hearing
the word of God with reverence,"[46] an absolute readiness to serve
faithfully God's salvific will revealed in Jesus. Already at the
beginning of human redemption, after Mary, we find the model of
obedience made incarnate in Saint Joseph, the man known for having
faithfully carried out God's commands. Pope Paul VI invited us to
invoke Joseph's patronage "as the Church has been wont to do in these
recent times, for herself in the first place, with a spontaneous
theological reflection on the marriage of divine and human action in
the great economy of the Redemption, in which economy the first - the
divine one - is wholly sufficient unto itself, while the second - the
human action which is ours - though capable of nothing (cf. Jn 15:5),
is never dispensed from a humble but conditional and ennobling
collaboration. The Church also calls upon Joseph as her protector
because of a profound and ever present desire to reinvigorate her
ancient life with true evangelical virtues, such as shine forth in
Saint Joseph."[47]

31. The Church transforms these needs into prayer. Recalling that God
wished to entrust the beginnings of our redemption to the faithful care
of Saint Joseph, she asks God to grant that she may faithfully
cooperate in the work of salvation; that she may receive the same
faithfulness and purity of heart that inspired Joseph in serving the
Incarnate Word; and that she may walk before God in the ways of
holiness and justice, following Joseph's example and through his
intercession.[48] One hundred years ago, Pope [16]Leo XIII had already
exhorted the Catholic world to pray for the protection of Saint Joseph,
Patron of the whole Church. The Encyclical Epistle Quamquam Pluries
appealed to Joseph's "fatherly love...for the child Jesus" and
commended to him, as "the provident guardian of the divine Family,"
"the beloved inheritance which Jesus Christ purchased by his blood."
Since that time - as I recalled at the beginning of this Exhortation -
the Church has implored the protection of Saint Joseph on the basis of
"that sacred bond of charity which united him to the Immaculate Virgin
Mother of God," and the Church has commended to Joseph all of her
cares, including those dangers which threaten the human family. Even
today we have many reasons to pray in a similar way: "Most beloved
father, dispel the evil of falsehood and sin...graciously assist us
from heaven in our struggle with the powers of darkness...and just as
once you saved the Child Jesus from mortal danger, so now defend God's
holy Church from the snares of her enemies and from all adversity."[49]
Today we still have good reason to commend everyone to Saint Joseph.

32. It is my heartfelt wish that these reflections on the person of
Saint Joseph will renew in us the prayerful devotion which my
Predecessor called for a century ago. Our prayers and the very person
of Joseph have renewed significance for the Church in our day in light
of the Third Christian Millennium. The Second Vatican Council made all
of us sensitive once again to the "great things which God has done,"
and to that "economy of salvation" of which Saint Joseph was a special
minister. Commending ourselves, then, to the protection of him to whose
custody God "entrusted his greatest and most precious treasures,"[50]
let us at the same time learn from him how to be servants of the
"economy of salvation." May Saint Joseph become for all of us an
exceptional teacher in the service of Christ's saving mission, a
mission which is the responsibility of each and every member of the
Church: husbands and wives, parents, those who live by the work of
their hands or by any other kind of work, those called to the
contemplative life and those called to the apostolate. This just man,
who bore within himself the entire heritage of the Old Covenant, was
also brought into the "beginning" of the New and Eternal Covenant in
Jesus Christ. May he show us the paths of this saving Covenant as we
stand at the threshold of the next millennium, in which there must be a
continuation and further development of the "fullness of time" that
belongs to the ineffable mystery of the Incarnation of the Word. May
Saint Joseph obtain for the Church and for the world, as well as for
each of us, the blessing of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit.

Given at Rome, in Saint Peter's, on August 15 - the Solemnity of the
Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary - in the year 1989, the eleventh
of my Pontificate.

Joannes Paulus pp.II

ENDNOTES

 1. Cf. Saint Irenaeus, Adversus haereses, IV, 23, l: S. Ch. 100/2, pp.
    692-694.
 2. Leo XIII Encyclical Epistle Quamquam pluries (August 15, 1889):
    Leonis Xlll PM Acta, IX (1890), pp. 175-182.
 3. Sacror. Rituum Congreg., Decr. Quemadmodum Deus (December 8, 1870):
    Pii IX P.M Acta, pars I, vol. V, p. 282; Pius IX, Apostolic Letter
    Inclytum Patriarcham (July 7, 1871): loc. cit., pp. 331-335.
 4. Cf. Saint John Chrysostom, In Matth. Hom. V, 3: PG 57, 57f. The
    Fathers of the Church and the Popes, on the basis of their common
    name, also saw in Joseph of Egypt a prototype of Joseph of
    Nazareth, inasmuch as the former foreshadowed in some way the
    ministry and greatness of the latter, who was guardian of God the
    Father's most precious treasures - the Incarnate Word and his most
    holy Mother: cf., for example, Saint Bernard, Super "Missus est,"
    Hom. II, 16: S. Bernardi Opera, Ed. Cist., IV, 33f.; Leo XIII,
    Encyclical Epistle Quamquam pluries (August 15, 1889): loc. cit.,
    p. 179.
 5. Second Vatican Ecumenical Council, Dogmatic Constitution on the
    Church, Lumen Gentium, 58.
 6. Cf. ibid., 63.
 7. Second Vatican Ecumenical Council, Dogmatic Constitution on Divine
    Revelation, Dei Verbum, 5.
 8. Ibid., 2.
 9. Cf. Second Vatican Ecumenical Council, Dogmatic Constitution on the
    Church, Lumen Gentium, 63.
10. Second Vatican Ecumenical Council, Dogmatic Constitution on Divine
    Revelation, Dei Verbum, 2.
11. Sacred Congregation of Rites, Decree Novis hisce temporibus
    (November 13, 1962): AAS 54 (1962), p. 873.
12. St. Augustine, Sermo 51, 10, 16: PL 38, 342.
13. St. Augustine, De nuptiis et concupiscentia, I, 11, 12: PL 44, 421;
    cf. De consensu evangelistarum, II, 1, 2: PL 34, 1071;Contra
    Faustum, III 2: PL 42. 214.
14. St. Augustine, De nuptiis et concupiscentia, I, 11, 13: PL 44, 421;
    cf. Contra lulianum, V, 12, 46: PL 44, 810.
15. Cf. Saint Augustine, Contra Faustum, XXIII, 8: PL 42, 470f.; De
    consensu evangelistarum, II, 1, 3: PL 34, 1072; Sermo, 51, 13, 21:
    PL 38, 344f.; Saint Thomas. Summa Theol., m, 4. 29, a. 2 in
    conclus.
16. Cf. Discourses of January 9, 16, February 20, 1980: Insegnamenti,
    III/I (1980), pp. 88-92; 148-152; 428-431.
17. Paul VI, Discourse to the "Equipes Notre-Dame" Movement (May 4,
    1970). n. 7: AAS 62 (1970), p. 431. Similar praise of the Family of
    Nazareth as a perfect example of domestic life can be found, for
    example, in Leo XIII, Apostolic Letter Neminem fugit (June 14,
    1892); Leonis Xlll PM Acta, XII (1892), p. 149f.; Benedict XV, Motu
    Proprio Bonum sane (July 25, 1920): AAS 12 (1920), pp. 313-317.
18. Apostolic Exhortation Familiaris Consortio (November 22, 1981), 17:
    AAS 74 (1982), p. 100.
19. Ibid., 49: loc. cit., p. 140; cf. Second Vatican Ecumenical
    Council, Dogmatic Constitution on the Church, Lumen Gentium, 11;
    Decree on the Apostolate of the Laity, Apostolicam Actuositatem,
    11.
20. Apostolic Exhortation Familiaris Consortio (November 22, 1981), 85:
    loc. cit., pp. 189f.
21. Cf. Saint John Chrysostom, In Matth. Hom. V, 3: PG 57, 57f.
22. Paul VI, Discourse (March 19, 1966): Insegnamenti, IV (1966), p.
    110.
23. Cf. Roman Missal, Collect for the Solemnity of Saint Joseph,
    Husband of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
24. Cf. ibid., Preface for the Solemnity of Saint Joseph, Husband of
    the Blessed Virgin Mary.
25. Leo XIII, Encyclical Epistle Quamquam pluries (August 15, 1889):
    loc. cit., p. 178.
26. Pius XII, Radio Message to Catholic School Students in the United
    States of America (February 19, 1958): AAS 50 (1958), p. 174.
27. [17]Origen, Hom. Xlll in Lucam, 7: S. Ch. 87. pp. 214f.
28. [18]Origen, Hom. Xl in Lucam, 6: S. Ch. 87, pp. 196f.
29. Cf. Roman Missal, Eucharistic Prayer 1.
30. Sacror. Rituum Congreg., Decr. Quemadmodum Deus (December 8, 1870):
    loc. cit., p. 282.
31. Collectio Missatum de Beata Maria Virgine, 1, "Sancta Maria de
    Nazareth,' Praefatio.
32. Apostolic Exhortation Familiaris Consortio (November 22, 1981), 16:
33. Leo XIII, Encyclical Epistle Quamquam pluries (August 15, 1889):
    loc. cit., pp. 177f.
34. Cf. Encyclical Letter Laborem Exercens (September 14, 1981), 9: AAS
    73 (1981), pp. 599f.
35. Ibid., 24: loc. cit., p. 638. The Popes in recent times have
    constantly presented Saint Joseph as the "model" of workers and
    laborers; Cf., for example, [19]Leo XIII Encyclical Epistle
    Quamquam pluries (August 15, 1889): loc. cit., p. 180; Benedict XV,
    Motu proprio Bonum sane (July 25, 1920): loc. cit. pp. 314-316:
    Pius XII, Discourse (March 11, 1945), 4: AAS 37 (1945), p. 72:
    Discourse (May I, 1955): AAS 47 (1955), p. 406; John XXIII, Radio
    Address (May 1, 1960): AAS 52 (1960), p. 398.
36. Paul VI, Discourse (March 19, 1969): Insegnamenti, VII (1969), p.
    1268.
37. Ibid.: loc. cit., p. 1267.
38. Cf. Saint Thomas, Summa Theol. Il-II, q. 82, a. 3, ad 2.
39. Ibid., III q. 8, a. 1, ad 1.
40. Cf. Pius XII. Encyclical Letter Haurietis aquas (May 15, 1956), III
    AAS 48 (1956), pp. 329f.
41. Cf. Saint Thomas, Summa Theol. II-II, q. 182, a. 1, ad 3.
42. Cf. Sacror. Rituum Congreg., Decr. Quemadmodum Deus (December 8,
    1870): loc. cit., p. 283.
43. Ibid.: loc. cit., pp. 282f.
44. Leo XIII Encyclical Epistle Quamquam pluries (August 15, 1889):
    loc. cit., pp. 177-179.
45. Post-Synodal Apostolic Exhortation Christifideles Laici (December
    30, 1988). 34: AAS 81 (1989), p. 456.
46. Second Vatican Ecumenical Council, Dogmatic Constitution on Divine
    Revelation, Dei Verbum, 1.
47. Paul VI, Discourse (March 19, 1969): Insegnamenti, VII (1969), p.
    1269.
48. Cf. Roman Missal, Collect, Prayer over the Gifts for the Solemnity
    of Saint Joseph, Husband of the Blessed Virgin Mary; Prayer after
    Communion from the Votive Mass of Saint Joseph.
49. Cf. [20]Leo XII "Oratio ad Sanctum Iosephum," contained immediately
    after the text of the Encyclical Epistle Quamquam pluries (August
    15, 1889): Leonis XIII PM. Acta, IX (1890), p. 183.
50. Sacror. Rituum Congreg., Decr. Quemadmodum Deus (December 8, 1870):
    loc. cit., p. 282.

