____________________

[9]General Audience of Pope Benedict XVI, 14 March 2007 - Saint Ignatius of
Antioch

[10][Saint Ignatius of Antioch] Saint Ignatius of Antioch

Dear Brothers and Sisters,

As we already did last Wednesday, we are speaking about the figures of
the early Church. Last week we spoke of Pope Clement I, the third
Successor of St Peter. Today, we will be speaking of St Ignatius, who
was the third Bishop of Antioch from 70 to 107, the date of his
martyrdom. At that time, Rome, Alexandria and Antioch were the three
great metropolises of the Roman Empire. The Council of Nicea mentioned
three "primacies": Rome, but also Alexandria and Antioch participated
in a certain sense in a "primacy".

St Ignatius was Bishop of Antioch, which today is located in Turkey.
Here in Antioch, as we know from the Acts of the Apostles, a
flourishing Christian community developed. Its first Bishop was the
Apostle Peter - or so tradition claims - and it was there that the
disciples were "for the first time called Christians" (Acts 11: 26).
Eusebius of Caesarea, a fourth-century historian, dedicated an entire
chapter of his Church History to the life and literary works of
Ignatius (cf. 3: 36).

Eusebius writes: "The Report says that he [Ignatius] was sent from
Syria to Rome, and became food for wild beasts on account of his
testimony to Christ. And as he made the journey through Asia under the
strictest military surveillance" (he called the guards "ten leopards"
in his Letter to the Romans, 5: 1), "he fortified the parishes in the
various cities where he stopped by homilies and exhortations, and
warned them above all to be especially on their guard against the
heresies that were then beginning to prevail, and exhorted them to hold
fast to the tradition of the Apostles".

The first place Ignatius stopped on the way to his martyrdom was the
city of Smyrna, where St Polycarp, a disciple of St John, was Bishop.
Here, Ignatius wrote four letters, respectively to the Churches of
Ephesus, Magnesia, Tralli and Rome. "Having left Smyrna", Eusebius
continues, Ignatius reached Troas and "wrote again": two letters to the
Churches of Philadelphia and Smyrna, and one to Bishop Polycarp.

Thus, Eusebius completes the list of his letters, which have come down
to us from the Church of the first century as a precious treasure. In
reading these texts one feels the freshness of the faith of the
generation which had still known the Apostles. In these letters, the
ardent love of a saint can also be felt.

Lastly, the martyr travelled from Troas to Rome, where he was thrown to
fierce wild animals in the Flavian Amphitheatre.

No Church Father has expressed the longing for union with Christ and
for life in him with the intensity of Ignatius. We therefore read the
Gospel passage on the vine, which according to John's Gospel is Jesus.
In fact, two spiritual "currents" converge in Ignatius, that of Paul,
straining with all his might for union with Christ, and that of John,
concentrated on life in him. In turn, these two currents translate into
the imitation of Christ, whom Ignatius several times proclaimed as "my"
or "our God".

Thus, Ignatius implores the Christians of Rome not to prevent his
martyrdom since he is impatient "to attain to Jesus Christ". And he
explains, "It is better for me to die on behalf of Jesus Christ than to
reign over all the ends of the earth.... Him I seek, who died for us:
him I desire, who rose again for our sake.... Permit me to be an
imitator of the Passion of my God!" (Romans, 5-6).

One can perceive in these words on fire with love, the pronounced
Christological "realism" typical of the Church of Antioch, more focused
than ever on the Incarnation of the Son of God and on his true and
concrete humanity: "Jesus Christ", St Ignatius wrote to the Smyrnaeans,
"was truly of the seed of David", "he was truly born of a virgin", "and
was truly nailed [to the Cross] for us" (1: 1). Ignatius' irresistible
longing for union with Christ was the foundation of a real "mysticism
of unity". He describes himself: "I therefore did what befitted me as a
man devoted to unity" (Philadelphians, 8: 1).

For Ignatius unity was first and foremost a prerogative of God, who,
since he exists as Three Persons, is One in absolute unity. Ignatius
often used to repeat that God is unity and that in God alone is unity
found in its pure and original state. Unity to be brought about on this
earth by Christians is no more than an imitation as close as possible
to the divine archetype.

Thus, Ignatius reached the point of being able to work out a vision of
the Church strongly reminiscent of certain expressions in Clement of
Rome's Letter to the Corinthians.

For example, he wrote to the Christians of Ephesus: "It is fitting that
you should concur with the will of your Bishop, which you also do. For
your justly renowned presbytery, worthy of God, is fitted as exactly to
the Bishop as the strings are to the harp. Therefore, in your concord
and harmonious love, Jesus Christ is sung. And man by man, you become a
choir, that being harmonious in love and taking up the song of God in
unison you may with one voice sing to the Father..." (4: 1-2).

And after recommending to the Smyrnaeans: "Let no man do anything
connected with Church without the Bishop", he confides to Polycarp: "I
offer my life for those who are submissive to the Bishop, to the
presbyters, and to the deacons, and may I along with them obtain my
portion in God! Labour together with one another; strive in company
together; run together; suffer together; sleep together; and awake
together as the stewards and associates and servants of God. Please him
under whom you fight, and from whom you receive your wages. Let none of
you be found a deserter. Let your Baptism endure as your arms; your
faith as your helmet; your love as your spear; your patience as a
complete panoply" (Polycarp, 6: 1-2).

Overall, it is possible to grasp in the Letters of Ignatius a sort of
constant and fruitful dialectic between two characteristic aspects of
Christian life: on the one hand, the hierarchical structure of the
Ecclesial Community, and on the other, the fundamental unity that binds
all the faithful in Christ. Consequently, their roles cannot be opposed
to one another. On the contrary, the insistence on communion among
believers and of believers with their Pastors was constantly
reformulated in eloquent images and analogies: the harp, strings,
intonation, the concert, the symphony. The special responsibility of
Bishops, priests and deacons in building the community is clear.

This applies first of all to their invitation to love and unity. "Be
one", Ignatius wrote to the Magnesians, echoing the prayer of Jesus at
the Last Supper: "one supplication, one mind, one hope in love....
Therefore, all run together as into one temple of God, as to one altar,
as to one Jesus Christ who came forth from one Father, and is with and
has gone to one" (7: 1-2).

Ignatius was the first person in Christian literature to attribute to
the Church the adjective "catholic" or "universal": "Wherever Jesus
Christ is", he said, "there is the Catholic Church" (Smyrnaeans, 8: 2).
And precisely in the service of unity to the Catholic Church, the
Christian community of Rome exercised a sort of primacy of love: "The
Church which presides in the place of the region of the Romans, and
which is worthy of God, worthy of honour, worthy of the highest
happiness... and which presides over love, is named from Christ, and
from the Father..." (Romans, Prologue).

As can be seen, Ignatius is truly the "Doctor of Unity": unity of God
and unity of Christ (despite the various heresies gaining ground which
separated the human and the divine in Christ), unity of the Church,
unity of the faithful in "faith and love, to which nothing is to be
preferred" (Smyrnaeans, 6: 1).

Ultimately, Ignatius' realism invites the faithful of yesterday and
today, invites us all, to make a gradual synthesis between
configuration to Christ (union with him, life in him) and dedication to
his Church (unity with the Bishop, generous service to the community
and to the world).

To summarize, it is necessary to achieve a synthesis between communion
of the Church within herself and mission, the proclamation of the
Gospel to others, until the other speaks through one dimension and
believers increasingly "have obtained the inseparable Spirit, who is
Jesus Christ" (Magnesians, 15).

Imploring from the Lord this "grace of unity" and in the conviction
that the whole Church presides in charity (cf. Romans, Prologue), I
address to you yourselves the same hope with which Ignatius ended his
Letter to the Trallians: "Love one another with an undivided heart. Let
my spirit be sanctified by yours, not only now, but also when I shall
attain to God.... In [Jesus Christ] may you be found unblemished" (13).

And let us pray that the Lord will help us to attain this unity and to
be found at last unstained, because it is love that purifies souls.

           - Pope Benedict XVI, General Audience, [11]14 March [12]2007

