____________________

[9]Pope Francis - General Audience, 27 March 2013

[10]Pope Francis Brothers and sisters, good morning!

I am pleased to welcome you to my first general audience. With deep
gratitude and veneration I am taking up the "witness" from the hands of
my beloved predecessor, Benedict XVI. After Easter we will resume the
catechesis on the Year of Faith. Today I would like to focus a little
on Holy Week. With Palm Sunday we began this week - the center of all
the liturgical year - in which we accompany Jesus in His Passion, Death
and Resurrection.

But does it mean for us to live Holy Week? What does it means to follow
Jesus on his way to the Cross on Calvary and the Resurrection? In his
earthly mission, Jesus walked the streets of the Holy Land; he called
twelve simple people to remain with Him, to share his journey and
continue His mission; He chose them among the people full of faith in
the promises of God. He spoke to everyone, without distinction, to the
great and the lowly; to the rich young man and the poor widow, the
powerful and the weak; He brought the mercy and forgiveness of God to
all; he healed, comforted, understood, gave hope, He led all to the
presence of God who is interested in every man and woman, like a good
father and a good mother is interested in each child. God did not wait
for us to go to Him, but He moved towards us, without calculation,
without measures. This is how God is : He is always the first, He moves
towards us. Jesus lived the daily realities of most ordinary people: He
was moved by the crowd that seemed a flock without a shepherd, and He
cried in front of the suffering of Martha and Mary on the death of
their brother Lazarus; he called a tax collector to be His disciple and
also suffered the betrayal of a friend. In Christ, God has given us the
assurance that He is with us, in our midst. " Foxes - Jesus aid - have
dens and birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to
rest his head" (Mt 8:20). Jesus did not have a home because His house
is the people, that us, His mission is to open all God's doors, to be
the loving presence of God.

In Holy Week we live the highest point of this journey, this loving
plan that runs throughout the entire history of the relationship
between God and humanity. Jesus enters Jerusalem to take the final
step, in which His whole live is summarized: He gives himself totally,
He keeps nothing for Himself, not even his life. At the Last Supper,
with His friends, He shares the bread and distributes the cup "for us."
The Son of God is offered to us, He consigns His Body and his Blood
into our hands to be with us always, to dwell among us. And on the
Mount of Olives, as in the trial before Pilate, He puts up no
resistance, He gifts Himself: He is the Suffering Servant foretold by
Isaiah, who stripped himself unto death (cf. Is 53:12).

Jesus does not live this love that leads to sacrifice passively or as a
fatal destiny; certainly He does not hide his deep human commotion in
the face of a violent death, but He entrusts Himself with full
confidence to the Father. Jesus voluntarily consigned Himself to death
to respond to the love of God the Father, in perfect union with His
will, to demonstrate His love for us. On the cross, Jesus "loved me and
gave himself for me" (Gal 2:20). Each of us can say, "He loved me and
gave himself for me." Everyone can say that "for me".

What does this mean for us? It means that this is my, your, our path.
Living Holy Week following to Jesus not only with the emotions of the
heart, living Holy Week following Jesus means learning how to come out
of ourselves - as I said on Sunday - to reach out to others, to go to
the outskirts of existence, to be the first to move towards our
brothers and sisters, especially those who are most distant, those who
are forgotten, those who are most in need of understanding, consolation
and help. There is so much need to bring the living presence of Jesus,
merciful and full of love!

Living Holy Week means increasingly entering into God's logic, the
logic of the Cross, which is not first of all that of pain and death,
but of love and of self-giving that brings life. It means entering into
the logic of the Gospel. Following, accompanying Christ, remaining with
him requires an "stepping outside" stepping outside. Stepping outside
of ourselves, of a tired and routine way of living the faith, of the
temptation to withdraw into pre-established patterns that end up
closing our horizon to the creative action of God. God stepped outside
of Himself to come among us, He pitched His tent among us to bring the
mercy of God that saves and gives hope. Even if we want to follow Him
and stay with Him, we must not be content to remain in the enclosure of
the ninety-nine sheep, we have to "step outside", to search for the
lost sheep together with Him, the one furthest away. Remember well:
stepping outside of ourselves, like Jesus, like God has stepped outside
of Himself in Jesus and Jesus stepped outside of Himself for.

Some might say to me, "But, Father, I have no time", "I have so many
things to do", "it is difficult", "what can I do with my little
strength?", with my sin, with so many things ? Often we settle for a
few prayers, a distracted and inconsistent presence at Sunday Mass, a
random act of charity, but we lack this courage to "step outside" to
bring Christ. We are a bit like St. Peter. As soon as Jesus speaks of
the Passion, Death and Resurrection, of self-giving, of love for all,
the Apostle takes him aside and rebukes him. What Jesus says upsets his
plans, seems unacceptable, undermines the sense of security that he had
built up, his idea of the Messiah. And Jesus looks at the disciples and
addresses Peter with perhaps one of the strongest words of the Gospel:
" Get behind me, Satan. You are thinking not as God does, but as human
beings do"(Mk 8:33). God always thinks with mercy: do not forget this.
God always thinks with mercy: our merciful Father. God thinks like a
father who awaits the return of his child and goes to meet him, sees
him come when he is still far away ... What does this mean? That each
and every day he went out to see if his son was coming home. This is
our merciful Father. It is the sign that He was waiting for him from
the terrace of is house; God thinks like the Samaritan that does not
approach the victim to commiserate with him, or look the other way, but
rescue him without asking for anything in return, without asking if he
was Jew, if it was pagan, a Samaritan, rich or poor: he does not ask
anything. He does not ask these things, he asks for nothing. He goes to
his aid: This is how God thinks. God thinks like the shepherd who gives
his life to defend and save his sheep.

Holy Week is a time of grace which the Lord gifts us to open the doors
of our hearts, our lives, our parishes - what a pity, so many parishes
are closed! - in our parishes, movements, associations, and to "step
outside" towards others, to draw close to them so we can bring the
light and joy of our faith. Always step outside yourself! And with the
love and tenderness of God, with respect and patience, knowing that we
put our hands, our feet, our hearts, but then it is God who guides them
and makes all our actions fruitful.

May you all live these days well following the Lord with courage,
carrying within a ray of His love for all those whom we meet.

