____________________

[8]Pope Gregory III - Writes to Boniface about the Organization of the Church
in Bavaria, 29 October 739

[9]Pope Gregory III To our most reverend and holy brother Boniface,
Gregory, servant of the servants of God.

A sentence of the teacher of all nations, the celebrated Apostle Saint
Paul, tells us that everything helps to secure the good of those who
love God. Therefore when we learned from your report that God in His
mercy had loosed a great number of the German people from the toils of
paganism and had brought as many as a hundred thousand souls into the
Church through your efforts and those of Prince Charles, we raised our
hands in prayer and thanked God, the Giver of all good, for having
opened the gates of mercy and love to make known to the West the path
of salvation. Glory be to Him for ever.

You tell us that you have made a journey into [10]Bavaria and found the
people there living in a manner contrary to the ordinances of the
Church, and that, because they have no bishops except Vivilo, whom we
consecrated some time ago, you have, with the approval of Odilo, Duke
of [11]Bavaria, and the nobles of the province, consecrated three other
bishops. You say also that you have divided the province into four
districts, so that each bishop may have his own diocese. In carrying
out our commands and in performing the task that was enjoined upon you
you have acted wisely and well.

Continue, reverend brother, to teach them the holy, Catholic and
apostolic traditions of the See of Rome, so that the ignorant may be
enlightened and may follow the path that leads to eternal bliss.

As to the priests whom you have found there, if the bishops who
ordained them are not known to you and a doubt remains whether they
were true bishops or not, let them be ordained by a bishop and fulfill
their sacred charge, provided they are Catholics of blameless life,
trained to the service of God, were versed in the teachings of the
Church and fitted to hold office.

Those who were baptized with a formula expressed in a heathen tongue,
provided their Baptism was performed in the name of the Trinity should
be confirmed with sacred chrism and the laying-on-of-hands.

Bishop Vivilo was consecrated by us. If, however, he has deviated from
orthodox teaching in any point, correct and instruct him according to
the traditions of the Church of Rome, as you have learned them from us.

We command you to attend the council which is to be held on the banks
of the Danube and, vested with Apostolic authority, to act as our
representative. As far as God shall grant you strength, continue to
preach the word of salvation, so that the Christian faith may increase
and multiply in the name of the Lord.

You have no permission, brother, to remain in one district once your
work there has been completed. Strengthen the minds of your brethren
and the faithful who are scattered throughout the West and continue to
preach wherever God grants you opportunity to save souls. When the need
arises consecrate bishops according to canon law in your capacity as
our representative, and instruct them to observe apostolic and Catholic
doctrine. In this way you will assure yourself of a great reward and
win over to Almighty God a perfect people. Do not shrink, beloved
brother, from difficult and protracted journeys in the service of the
Christian faith, for it is written that small is the gate and narrow
the road that leads on to life.

Continue, then, brother, the exemplary work you have begun, so that in
the day of Christ you may be entitled to say in the presence of the
saints at the day of judgment: " Here stand I and these children the
Lord has given me. I have not lost any of them whom thou has entrusted
to me." And again: "It was five talents thou gavest me, see how I have
made profit of five talents besides."Then you will deservedly hear the
voice of God saying: "Well done, my good and faithful servant: since
thou hast been faithful over little things, I have great things to
commit to thy charge: come and share the joy of thy Lord."

May God preserve you, most reverend brother.

Given on the fourth day of the kalends of November, in the twenty-third
year of our loving and august lord Leo, by the grace of God emperor, in
the twenty-third year of his consulship and the twentieth year of the
Emperor Constantine, in the eighth indiction.

