____________________

[9]Pope Francis - Homily, 14 April 2013

[10]Pope Francis Dear Brothers and Sisters!

It is a joy for me to celebrate Mass with you in this Basilica. I greet
the Archpriest, Cardinal James Harvey, and I thank him for the words
that he has addressed to me. Along with him, I greet and thank the
various institutions that form part of this Basilica, and all of you.
We are at the tomb of Saint Paul, a great yet humble Apostle of the
Lord, who proclaimed him by word, bore witness to him by martyrdom and
worshipped him with all his heart. These are the three key ideas on
which I would like to reflect in the light of the word of God that we
have heard: proclamation, witness, worship.

In the First Reading, what strikes us is the strength of Peter and the
other Apostles. In response to the order to be silent, no longer to
teach in the name of Jesus, no longer to proclaim his message, they
respond clearly: "We must obey God, rather than men". And they remain
undeterred even when flogged, ill-treated and imprisoned. Peter and the
Apostles proclaim courageously, fearlessly, what they have received:
the Gospel of Jesus. And we? Are we capable of bringing the word of God
into the environment in which we live? Do we know how to speak of
Christ, of what he represents for us, in our families, among the people
who form part of our daily lives? Faith is born from listening, and is
strengthened by proclamation.

But let us take a further step: the proclamation made by Peter and the
Apostles does not merely consist of words: fidelity to Christ affects
their whole lives, which are changed, given a new direction, and it is
through their lives that they bear witness to the faith and to the
proclamation of Christ. In today's Gospel, Jesus asks Peter three times
to feed his flock, to feed it with his love, and he prophesies to him:
"When you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will
gird you and carry you where you do not wish to go" (Jn 21:18). These
words are addressed first and foremost to those of us who are pastors:
we cannot feed God's flock unless we let ourselves be carried by God's
will even where we would rather not go, unless we are prepared to bear
witness to Christ with the gift of ourselves, unreservedly, not in a
calculating way, sometimes even at the cost of our lives. But this also
applies to everyone: we all have to proclaim and bear witness to the
Gospel. We should all ask ourselves: How do I bear witness to Christ
through my faith? Do I have the courage of Peter and the other
Apostles, to think, to choose and to live as a Christian, obedient to
God? To be sure, the testimony of faith comes in very many forms, just
as in a great fresco, there is a variety of colours and shades; yet
they are all important, even those which do not stand out. In God's
great plan, every detail is important, even yours, even my humble
little witness, even the hidden witness of those who live their faith
with simplicity in everyday family relationships, work relationships,
friendships. There are the saints of every day, the "hidden" saints, a
sort of "middle class of holiness" to which we can all belong. But in
different parts of the world, there are also those who suffer, like
Peter and the Apostles, on account of the Gospel; there are those who
give their lives in order to remain faithful to Christ by means of a
witness marked by the shedding of their blood. Let us all remember
this: one cannot proclaim the Gospel of Jesus without the tangible
witness of one's life. Those who listen to us and observe us must be
able to see in our actions what they hear from our lips, and so give
glory to God! Inconsistency on the part of pastors and the faithful
between what they say and what they do, between word and manner of
life, is undermining the Church's credibility.

But all this is possible only if we recognize Jesus Christ, because it
is he who has called us, he who has invited us to travel his path, he
who has chosen us. Proclamation and witness are only possible if we are
close to him, just as Peter, John and the other disciples in today's
Gospel passage were gathered around the Risen Jesus; there is a daily
closeness to him: they know very well who he is, they know him. The
Evangelist stresses the fact that "no one dared ask him: `Who are you?'
- they knew it was the Lord" (Jn 21:12). This is important for us:
living an intense relationship with Jesus, an intimacy of dialogue and
of life, in such a way as to recognize him as "the Lord", and to
worship him. The passage that we heard from the Book of Revelation
speaks to us of worship: the myriads of angels, all creatures, the
living beings, the elders, prostrate themselves before the Throne of
God and of the Lamb that was slain, namely Christ, to whom be praise,
honour and glory (cf. Rev 5:11-14). I would like all of us to ask
ourselves this question: You, I, do we worship the Lord? Do we turn to
God only to ask him for things, to thank him, or do we also turn to him
to worship him? What does it mean, then, to worship God? It means
learning to be with him, it means that we stop trying to dialogue with
him, and it means sensing that his presence is the most true, the most
good, the most important thing of all. All of us, in our own lives,
consciously and perhaps sometimes unconsciously, have a very clear
order of priority concerning the things we consider important.
Worshipping the Lord means giving him the place that he must have;
worshipping the Lord means stating, believing - not only by our words -
that he alone truly guides our lives; worshipping the Lord means that
we are convinced before him that he is the only God, the God of our
lives, the God of our history.

This has a consequence in our lives: we have to empty ourselves of the
many small or great idols that we have and in which we take refuge, on
which we often seek to base our security. They are idols that we
sometimes keep well hidden; they can be ambition, a taste for success,
placing ourselves at the centre, the tendency to dominate others, the
claim to be the sole masters of our lives, some sins to which we are
bound, and many others. This evening I would like a question to resound
in the heart of each one of you, and I would like you to answer it
honestly: Have I considered which idol lies hidden in my life that
prevents me from worshipping the Lord? Worshipping is stripping
ourselves of our idols, even the most hidden ones, and choosing the
Lord as the centre, as the highway of our lives.

Dear brothers and sisters, each day the Lord calls us to follow him
with courage and fidelity; he has made us the great gift of choosing us
as his disciples; he sends us to proclaim him with joy as the Risen
one, but he asks us to do so by word and by the witness of our lives,
in daily life. The Lord is the only God of our lives, and he invites us
to strip ourselves of our many idols and to worship him alone. May the
Blessed Virgin Mary and Saint Paul help us on this journey and
intercede for us.

