____________________

[8]Pope John Paul II - Homily on Saint Bridget of Sweden, 13 November 1999

[9]Pope Saint John Paul II 1. "Behold, I make all things new...these
words are trustworthy and true" (Rev 21:5) Christ makes all things new.
Saint Bridget, an illustrious daughter of Sweden, believed in Christ
intensely and with deep love. With her song of faith and her good works
she adorned the Church, which she recognized as the community of
believers, the dwelling-place of the Spirit of God. Today we remember
this extraordinary holy woman, and I am especially glad that beside me
in this celebration there are the highest representatives of the
Lutheran Churches of Sweden and Finland, together with my venerable
Brother Bishops of Stockholm and Copenhagen. I welcome each of them
with great affection. I also greet respectfully the King and Queen of
Sweden, who have chosen to honour this celebration with their presence.
My greeting goes also to the political leaders here with us. And
finally I greet all of you, dear Sisters of the Most Holy Saviour of
Saint Bridget, led by your Superior General.

2. Once again we are gathered to renew before the Lord the commitment
to unity of faith and unity of the Church which Saint Bridget undertook
with such conviction in troubled times. A passion for Christian unity
sustained her entire life. And, thanks to her witness and the witness
of Mother Elizabeth Hesselblad, this commitment has come down to us
through the mysterious stream of grace which overflows the bounds of
time and space. Today's celebration encourages us to meditate upon the
message of Saint Bridget, whom I recently chose to proclaim a
Co-Patroness of Europe, together with Saint Catherine of Siena and
Saint Teresa Benedicta of the Cross. Saint Bridget's dynamic love for
the Church of Christ and her witness to the Cross are a rallying-point
for us all as we prepare to cross the threshold of the new millennium.
I am very pleased at the end of our celebration this evening to
inaugurate and bless a statue which will make more vibrant here in the
Vatican the memory of this great witness of faith. Placed on the
outside of this Basilica and just beside the so-called "Door of
Prayer", the marble image of Saint Bridget will be an enduring
invitation to pray and work always for Christian unity.

3. My thoughts now turn to [10]5 October [11]1991, when a solemn
ecumenical celebration was held in this same basilica for the sixth
centenary of Saint Bridget's canonization. On that occasion I said:
"For 25 years Lutherans and Catholics have been working to rediscover
their common path.... Theological dialogue has brought to light again
the vast heritage of faith which unites us.... Everyone knows that the
Protestant Reformation began from the doctrine of justification and
that it destroyed the unity of the Christians of the West. A common
understanding of justification ... will, we are sure, help us to
resolve the other controversies directly or indirectly linked to it".
This "common understanding", which I had hoped for eight years ago,
today, thank God, has become an encouraging reality. On 31 October
last, in the city of Augsburg, a Joint Declaration was solemnly signed
in which Lutherans and Catholics expressed a consensus on basic truths
of the doctrine of justification. This achievement of the ecumenical
dialogue, a milestone on the way to full and visible unity, is the
result of an intense work of research, meetings and prayer. However, we
still have a long way to go: "grandis restat nobis via". We must do
even more, conscious of the responsibilities we all have on the
threshold of the third millennium. We must continue to walk together,
supported by Christ, who prayed to the Father in the Upper Room on the
night before his death that his disciples would "all be one" (Jn 17:
21).

4. The Joint Declaration says very appropriately that the consensus
reached by Catholics and Lutherans "in basic truths of the doctrine of
justification must come to influence the life and teachings of our
Churches" (n. 43). On this path we trust in the ceaseless action of the
Holy Spirit. Moreover, we also trust in those before us who loved
Christ and his Cross so much, and prayed, like Saint Bridget, for that
indelible note of the Church which is her unity. We do not know the day
when we will meet the Lord. The Gospel therefore calls us to watch,
keeping our lamps lighted, so that when the Bridegroom comes we can be
ready to welcome him. In this watchful expectation, the Divine Master's
prayer echoes in the heart of every believer: "Ut unum sint". May Saint
Bridget be our example and intercessor. In a special way I ask you, her
dear spiritual daughters of the Order of the Most Holy Saviour, to
continue faithfully your precious apostolate of service to unity. The
new millennium is now at hand: may "Christ yesterday, today and for
ever" be the focus and goal of all our aspirations. It is he who makes
all things new and marks out for his faithful ones a journey of joyful
hope. Let us pray unceasingly that he will grant the wisdom and
strength of his Spirit; let us beseech him that all Christians may
achieve unity as soon as possible. Nothing is impossible for God!

