____________________

[8]Sanguis Christi - On Promoting Devotion to the Most Precious Blood of Our
Lord Jesus Christ, by Pope John XXIII, 30 June 1960

[9]Pope John XXII, 1959 To his Venerable Brother Patriarchs, Primates,
Archbishops, Bishops and other Local Ordinaries in Peace and Communion
with the Apostolic See. Venerable brethren: greetings and apostolic
blessings.

From the very outset of our pontificate, in speaking of daily devotions
we have repeatedly urged the faithful (often in eager tones that
frankly hinted our future design) to cherish warmly that marvellous
manifestation of divine mercy toward individuals and Holy Church and
the whole world redeemed and saved by Jesus Christ: we mean devotion to
his Most Precious Blood.

From infancy this devotion was instilled in us within our own
household. Fondly we still recall how our parents used to recite the
Litany of the Most Precious Blood every day during July.

The Apostle's wholesome advice comes to mind: "Keep watch, then, over
yourselves, and over God's Church, in which the Holy Spirit has made
you bishops; you are to be the shepherds of that flock which he won for
himself at the price of his own blood." Now among the cares of our
pastoral office, venerable brethren, we are convinced that, second only
to vigilance over sound doctrine, preference belongs to the proper
surveillance and development of piety, in both its liturgical and
private expressions. With that in mind, we judge it most timely to call
our beloved children's attention to the unbreakable bond which must
exist between the devotions to the Most Holy Name and Most Sacred Heart
of Jesus - already so widespread among Christians - and devotion to the
incarnate Word's Most Precious Blood, "shed for many, to the remission
of sins."

It is supremely important that the Church's liturgy fully conform to
Catholic belief ("the law for prayer is the law for faith"), and that
only those devotional forms be sanctioned which well up from the
unsullied springs of true faith. But the same logic calls for complete
accord among different devotions. Those deemed more basic and more
conducive to holiness must not be at odds with or cut off from one
another. And the more individualistic and secondary ones must give way
in popularity and practice to those devotions which more effectively
actuate the fullness of salvation wrought by the "one mediator between
God and men, Jesus Christ, who is a man, like them, and gave himself as
a ransom for them all." Through living in an atmosphere thus charged
with true faith and solid piety the faithful can be confident that they
are "thinking with the Church" and holding fast in the loving
fellowship of prayer to Christ Jesus, the high priest of that sublime
religion which he founded and which owes to him its name, its strength,
its dignity.

The Church's wonderful advances in liturgical piety match the progress
of faith itself in penetrating divine truth. Within this development it
is most heart-warming to observe how often in recent centuries this
Holy See has openly ap proved and furthered the three devotions just
mentioned. From the Middle Ages, it is true, many pious persons prac
ticed these devotions, which then spread to various dioceses and
religious orders and congregations. Nevertheless it remained for the
Chair of Peter to pronounce them orthodox and approve them for the
Church as a whole.

Suffice it to recall the spiritual favours that our predecessors from
the sixteenth century on have attached to prac ticing devotion to the
Most Holy Name of Jesus, which in the previous century Saint Bernardine
of Siena untiringly spread throughout Italy. Approval was given first
to the Office and Mass of the Most Holy Name and later to the Litany.
No less striking are the benefits the popes have attached to practising
devotion to the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus, whose rise and spread owe
so much to the revelations of the Sacred Heart to Saint Margaret Mary
Alacoque. So highly have all the popes regarded this devotion that
again and again in their official acts they have expounded its nature,
defended its validity, promoted its practice. Their crowning
achievement on this devotion are three splendid encyclicals.

Likewise the devotion to the Most Precious Blood, which owes its
marvellous diffusion to the 19th-century Ro man priest, Saint Gaspar
del Bufalo, has rightly merited the approval and backing of this
Apostolic See. We may recall that by order of Benedict XIV the Mass and
Office in honour of the divine Saviour's adorable Blood were composed.
And to fulfill a vow made at Gaeta Pius IX extended the feast to the
whole Church. Finally, as a commemoration of the nineteenth centenary
of our redemption, Pius XI of happy memory raised this feast to the
rank of first-class double, so that the greater liturgical splendour
would highlight the devotion and bring to men more abundant fruits of
the re deeming Blood.

Following our predecessors' example we have taken further steps to
promote the devotion to the Precious Blood of the unblemished Lamb,
Jesus Christ. We have approved the Litany of the Precious Blood drawn
up by the Sacred Congregation of Rites and through special indulgences
have encouraged its public and private recitation throughout the
Catholic world. Amid today's most serious and pressing spiritual needs,
may this latest exercise of that "care for all the churches" proper to
our sovereign office awaken in Christian hearts a firm conviction about
the supreme abiding effectiveness of these three devotions.

As we now approach the feast and month devoted to honouring Christ's
Blood - the price of our redemption, the pledge of salvation and life
eternal - may Christians meditate on it more fervently, may they savour
its fruits more frequently in sacramental communion. Let their
meditations on the boundless power of the Blood be bathed in the light
of sound biblical teaching and the doctrine of the Fathers and Doctors
of the Church. How truly precious is this Blood is voiced in the song
which the Church sings with the Angelic Doctor (sentiments wisely
seconded by our predecessor Clement VI):

Blood that but one drop of has the world to win
All the world forgiveness of its world of sin.

Unlimited is the effectiveness of the God-Man's Blood - just as
unlimited as the love that impelled him to pour it out for us, first at
his circumcision eight days after birth, and more profusely later on in
his agony in the garden, in his scourging and crowning with thorns, in
his climb to Calvary and crucifixion, and finally from out that great
wide wound in his side which symbolizes the divine Blood cascading down
into all the Church's sacraments. Such sur passing love suggests, nay
demands, that everyone reborn in the torrents of that Blood adore it
with grateful love.

The Blood of the new and eternal covenant especially deserves this
worship of latria when it is elevated during the sacrifice of the Mass.
But such worship achieves its normal fulfilment in sacramental
communion with the same Blood, indissolubly united with Christ's
eucharistic Body. In intimate association with the celebrant the
faithful can then truly make his sentiments at communion their own: "I
will take the chalice of salvation and call upon the name of the Lord.
. . The Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ preserve my soul for everlasting
life. Amen." Thus as often as they come worthily to this holy table
they will receive more abundant fruits of the redemption and
resurrection and eternal life won for all men by the Blood Christ shed
"through the Holy Spirit." Nourished by his Body and Blood, sharing the
divine strength that has sustained count less martyrs, they will stand
up to the slings and arrows of each day's fortunes - even if need be to
martyrdom itself for the sake of Christian virtue and the kingdom of
God. Theirs will be the experience of that burning love which made
Saint John Chrysostom cry out:

Let us, then, come back from that table like lions breathing out fire,
thus becoming terrifying to the Devil, and remaining mindful of our
Head and of the love he has shown for us. . . This Blood, when worthily
received, drives away demons and puts them at a distance from us, and
even summons to us angels and the Lord of angels. . . This Blood,
poured out in abundance, has washed the whole world clean. . . This is
the price of the world; by it Christ purchased the Church... This
thought will check in us unruly passions. How long, in truth, shall we
be attached to present things? How long shall we remain asleep? How
long shall we not take thought for our own salvation? Let us remember
what privileges God has bestowed on us, let us give thanks, let us
glorify him, not only by faith, but also by our very works.

If only Christians would reflect more frequently on the fatherly
warning of the first pope: "Look anxiously, then, to the ordering of
your lives while your stay on earth lasts.

You know well enough that your ransom was not paid in earthly currency,
silver or gold; it was paid in the precious blood of Christ; no lamb
was ever so pure, so spotless a victim." If only they would lend a more
eager ear to the apostle of the Gentiles: "A great price was paid to
ransom you; glorify God by making your bodies the shrines of his
presence." Their upright lives would then be the shining ex ample they
ought to be; Christ's Church would far more effectively fulfill its
mission to men. God wants all men to be saved, for he has willed that
they should all be ransomed by the Blood of his only-begotten Son; he
calls them all to be members of the one Mystical Body whose head is
Christ. If only men would be more responsive to these promptings of his
grace, how much the bonds of brotherly love among individuals and
peoples and nations would be strengthened. Life in society would be so
much more peaceable, so much worthier of God and the human nature
created in his image and likeness.

This is the sublime vocation that Saint Paul urged Jewish converts to
fix their minds on when tempted to nostalgia for what was only a weak
figure and prelude of the new covenant: "The scene of your approach now
is mount Sion, is the heavenly Jerusalem, city of the living God; here
are gathered thousands upon thousands of angels, here is the assembly
of those first-born sons whose names are written in heaven, here is God
sitting in judgment on all men, here are the spirits of just men, now
made perfect; here is Jesus, the spokesman of the new covenant, and the
sprinkling of his blood, which has better things to say than Abel's
had."

We have full confidence, venerable brethren, that these fatherly
exhortations of ours, once brought to the attention of your priests and
people in whatever way you deem best, will be put into practice not
just willingly but enthusiastically. As a sign of heavenly graces and
our affection we im part our most heartfelt apostolic blessing to each
of you and to all your flocks, and particularly to those who respond
with devout generosity to the promptings of this letter.

Given at Saint Peter's in Rome, the eve of the feast of Our Lord Jesus
Christ's Most Precious Blood, June 30, 1960, the second year of our
pontificate.

