2 Esdras.
Chapter 13.
And it came to pass after seven days, I dreamed a dream by night: 
and, lo, there arose a wind from the sea, that it moved all the waves thereof. 
And I beheld, and, lo, this wind caused to come up from the midst of the sea as it were the likeness of a man, and I beheld, and, lo, that man flew with the clouds of heaven: and when he turned his countenance to look, all things trembled that were seen under him. 
And whensoever the voice went out of his mouth, all they burned that heard his voice, like as the wax melteth when it feeleth the fire. 
And after this I beheld, and, lo, there was gathered together a multitude of men, out of number, from the four winds of heaven, to make war against the man that came out of the sea. 
And I beheld, and, lo, he graved himself a great mountain, and flew upon it. 
But I sought to see the region or place whereout the mountain was graven, and I could not. 
And after this I beheld, and, lo, all they which were gathered together to fight against him were sore afraid, and yet durst fight. 
And, lo, as he saw the assualt of the multitude that came, he neither lifted up his hand, nor held spear, nor any instrument of war: 
but only I saw how that he sent out of his mouth as it had been a flood of fire, and out of his lips a flaming breath, and out of his tongue he cast forth sparks of the storm. 
And these were all mingled together; the flood of fire, the flaming breath, and the great storm; and fell upon the assault of the multitude which was prepared to fight, and burned them up every one, so that upon a sudden of an innumerable multitude nothing was to be perceived, but only dust of ashes and smell of smoke: when I saw this I was amazed. 
Afterward I beheld the same man come down from the mountain, and call unto him another multitude which was peaceable. 
And there came much people unto him, whereof some were glad, some were sorry, some of them were bound, and other some brought of them that were offered: then through great fear I awaked, and prayed unto the Most High, and said, 
Thou hast shewed thy servant these wonders from the beginning, and hast counted me worthy that thou shouldest receive my prayer: 
and now shew me moreover the interpretation of this dream. 
For as I conceive in mine understanding, woe unto them that shall be left in those days! and much more woe unto them that are not left! 
for they that were not left shall be in heaviness, 
understanding the things that are laid up in the latter days, but not attaining unto them. 
But woe unto them also that are left, for this cause; for they shall see great perils and many necessities, like as these dreams declare. 
Yet is it better for one to be in peril and to come into these things, than to pass away as a cloud out of the world, and not to see the things that shall happen in the last days. And he answered unto me, and said, 
The interpretation of the vision shall I tell thee, and I will also open unto thee the things whereof thou hast made mention. 
Whereas thou hast spoken of them that are left behind, this is the interpretation: 
He that shall endure the peril in that time shall keep them that be fallen into danger, even such as have works, and faith toward the Almighty. 
Know therefore, that they which be left behind are more blessed than they that be dead. 
These are the interpretations of the vision: Whereas thou sawest a man coming up from the midst of the sea, 
the same is he whom the Most High hath kept a great season, which by his own self shall deliver his creature: and he shall order them that are left behind. 
And whereas thou sawest, that out of his mouth there came wind, and fire, and storm; 
and whereas he held neither spear, nor any instrument of war, but destroyed the assault of that multitude which came to fight against him; this is the interpretation: 
Behold, the days come, when the Most High will begin to deliver them that are upon the earth. 
And there shall come astonishment of mind upon them that dwell on the earth. 
And one shall think to war against another, city against city, place against place, people against people, and kingdom against kingdom. 
And it shall be, when these things shall come to pass, and the signs shall happen which I shewed thee before, then shall my Son be revealed, whom thou sawest as  a man ascending. 
And it shall be, when all the nations hear his voice, every man shall leave his own land and the battle they have one against another. 
And an innumerable multitude shall be gathered together, as thou sawest, desiring to come, and to fight against him. 
But he shall stand upon the top of the mount Sion. 
And Sion shall come, and shall be shewed to all men, being prepared and builded, like as thou sawest the mountain graven without hands. 
And this my Son shall rebuke the nations which are come for their wickedness, with plagues  that are like unto a tempest; 
and shall taunt them to their face with their evil thoughts, and the torments wherewith they shall be tormented, which are likened unto a flame: and he shall destroy them without labour by the law, which is likened unto fire. 
And whereas thou sawest that he gathered unto him another multitude that was peaceable; 
these are the ten tribes, which were led away out of their own land in the time of Osea the king, whom Salmananser the king of the Assyrians led away captive, and he carried them beyond the River, and they were carried into another land. 
But they took this counsel among themselves, that they would leave the multitude of the heathen, and go forth into a further country, where never mankind dwelt, 
that they might there keep their statutes, which they had not kept in their own land. 
And they entered by the narrow passages of the river Euphrates. 
For the Most High then wrought signs for them, and stayed the springs of the River, till they were passed over. 
For through that country there was a great way to go, namely, of a year and a half: and the same region is called Arzareth. 
Then dwelt they there until the latter time; and now when they begin to come again, 
the Most High stayeth the springs of the River again, that they may go through: therefore sawest thou the multitude gathered together with peace. 
But those that be left behind of thy people are they that are found within my holy border. 
It shall be therefore when he shall destroy the multitude of the nations that are gathered together, he shall defend the people that remain. 
And then shall he shew them very many wonders. 
Then said I, O Lord that bearest rule, shew me this: wherefore I have seen the man coming up from the midst of the sea. 
And he said unto me, like as one can neither seek out nor know what is in the deep of the sea, even so can no man upon earth see my Son, or those that be with him, but in the time of his day. 
This is the interpretation of the dream which thou sawest, and for this thou only art enlightened herein. 
For thou hast forsaken thine own ways,  and applied thy diligence unto mine, and hast sought out my law. 
Thy life hast thou ordered in wisdom, and hast called understanding thy mother. 
And therefore have I shewed thee this; for there is a reward laid up with the Most High: and it shall be, after other three days I will speak other things unto thee, and declare unto thee mighty and wondrous things. 
Then went I forth and passed into the field, giving praise and thanks greatly unto the Most High because of his wonders, which he did from time to time; 
and because he governeth the time, and such things as fall in their seasons. And there I sat three days. 
