SIRACH.
Chapter 25.
In three things I was beautified, And stood up beautiful before the Lord and men: The concord of brethren, and friendship of neighbours, And a woman and her husband that walk together in agreement. 
But three sorts of men  my soul hateth, And I am greatly offended at their life: A poor man that is haughty, and a rich man that is a liar, And  an old man that is an adulterer lacking understanding. 
In thy  youth thou hast not gathered, And how shouldest thou find in thine old age? 
How beautiful a thing is judgement for gray hairs, And for elders to know counsel! 
How beautiful is the wisdom of old men, And thought and counsel to men that are in honour! 
Much experience is the crown of old men; And their glorying is the fear of the Lord. 
There be nine things that I have thought of, and in mine heart counted happy; And the tenth I will utter with my tongue: A man that hath joy of his children; A man that liveth and looketh upon the fall of his enemies: 
Happy is he that dwelleth with a wife of understanding; And he that hath not slipped with his tongue; And he that hath not served a man that is unworthy of him: 
Happy is he that hath found prudence; And he that discourseth in the ears of them that listen. 
How great is he that hath found wisdom! Yet is there none above him that feareth the Lord. 
The fear of the Lord passeth all things: He that holdeth it, to whom shall he be likened? 
Give me  any plague but the plague of the heart; And any wickedness but the wickedness of a woman; 
Any calamity, but a calamity from them that hate me; And any vengeance, but the vengeance of enemies. 
There is no head above the head of a serpent; And there is no wrath above the wrath of an enemy. 
I will rather dwell with a lion and a dragon, Than keep house with a wicked woman. 
The wickedness of a woman changeth her look, And darkeneth her countenance as a bear doth. 
Her husband shall sit at meat among his neighbours, And when he heareth it he sigheth bitterly. 
All malice is but little to the malice of a woman: Let the portion of a sinner fall on her. 
As  the going up a sandy way is  to the feet of the aged, So is a wife full of words to a quiet man. 
Throw not thyself upon the beauty of a woman; And desire not a woman for her beauty. 
There is anger, and impudence, and great reproach, If a woman maintain her husband. 
A wicked woman is abasement of heart, And sadness of countenance, and a wounded heart: A woman that will not make her husband happy Is as  hands that hang down, and palsied knees. 
From a woman was  the beginning of sin; And because of her we all die. 
Give not water an outlet; Neither to a wicked woman freedom of speech. 
If she go not as thou wouldest have her, Cut her off from thy flesh. 
