SIRACH.
Chapter 35.
He that keepeth the law multiplieth offerings; He that taketh heed to the commandments sacrificeth a peace offering. 
He that requiteth a good turn offereth fine flour; And he that giveth alms sacrificeth a thank offering. 
To depart from wickedness is a thing pleasing to the Lord; And to depart from unrighteousness is a propitiation. 
See that thou appear not in the presence of the Lord empty. 
For all these things are to be done  because of the commandment. 
The offering of the righteous maketh the altar fat; And the sweet savour thereof is  before the Most High. 
The sacrifice of a righteous man is acceptable; And the memorial thereof shall not be forgotten. 
Glorify the Lord with a good eye, And stint not the firstfruits of thine hands. 
In every gift shew a cheerful countenance, And dedicate thy tithe with gladness. 
Give unto the Most High according as he hath given; And as thy hand hath found, give  with a good eye. 
For the Lord recompenseth, And he will recompense thee sevenfold. 
Think not to corrupt with gifts; for he will not receive them: And set not thy mind on an unrighteous sacrifice; For the Lord is judge, And with him is no respect of persons. 
He will not accept any person against a poor man; And he will listen to the prayer of him that is wronged. 
He will in no wise despise the supplication of the fatherless; Nor the widow, when she poureth out her tale. 
Do not the tears of the widow run down her cheek? And is not her cry against him that hath caused them to fall? 
He that serveth God  according to his good pleasure shall be accepted, And his supplication shall reach unto the clouds. 
The prayer of the humble pierceth the clouds; And till it come nigh, he will not be comforted; And he will not depart, till the Most High shall visit; And he shall judge righteously, and execute judgement. 
And the Lord will not be slack, neither will he be longsuffering toward them, Till he have crushed the loins of the unmerciful; And he shall repay vengeance to the heathen; Till he have taken away the multitude of the haughty, And broken in pieces the sceptres of the unrighteous; 
Till he have rendered to every  man according to his doings, And to  the works of men according to their devices; Till he have judged the cause of his people; And he shall make them to rejoice in his mercy. 
Mercy is seasonable in the time of his afflicting them,  As clouds of rain in the time of drought. 
