WISDOM.
Chapter 6.
Hear therefore, ye kings, and understand; Learn, ye judges of the ends of the earth: 
Give ear, ye that have dominion over much people, And make your boast in multitudes of nations. 
Because your dominion was given you from the Lord, And your sovereignty from the Most High; Who shall search out your works, And shall make inquisition of your counsels: 
Because being officers of his kingdom ye did not judge aright, Neither kept ye law, nor walked after the counsel of God. 
Awfully and swiftly shall he come upon you; Because a stern judgement befalleth them that be in high place: 
For the man of low estate may be pardoned in mercy, But mighty men shall be searched out mightily. 
For the Sovereign Lord of all will not refrain himself for any man’s  person, Neither will he reverence greatness; Because it is he that made both  small and great, And alike he taketh thought for all; 
But strict is the scrutiny that cometh upon the powerful. 
Unto you therefore, O princes, are my words, That ye may learn wisdom and fall not from the right way. 
For they that have kept holily the things that are holy shall themselves  be hallowed; And they that have been taught them shall find what to answer; 
Set your desire therefore on my words; Long for them,  and ye shall be trained by their  discipline. 
Wisdom is radiant and fadeth not away; And easily is she beheld of them that love her, And found of them that seek her. 
She forestalleth them that desire to know her, making herself first known. 
He that riseth up early to seek her shall have no toil, For he shall find her sitting at his gates. 
For to think upon her is perfectness of understanding, And he that watcheth for her sake shall quickly be free from care. 
Because she goeth about, herself seeking them that are worthy of her, And in their paths she appeareth unto them graciously, And in every purpose she meeteth them. 
For her true beginning is desire of discipline; And the care for discipline is love of her;  
And love of her  is observance of her laws; And to give heed to her  laws confirmeth incorruption; 
And incorruption bringeth near unto God; 
So then desire of wisdom promoteth to a kingdom. 
If therefore ye delight in thrones and sceptres, ye princes of peoples, Honour wisdom, that ye may reign for ever. 
But what wisdom is, and how she came into being, I will declare, And I will not hide mysteries from you; But I will trace her  out from the beginning of creation, And bring the knowledge of her into clear light, And I will not pass by the truth; 
Neither indeed will I take pining envy for my companion in the way, Because envy shall have no fellowship with wisdom. 
But a multitude of wise men is salvation to the world, And an understanding king is tranquillity to his  people. 
Wherefore be disciplined by my words, and thereby  shall ye profit. 
