THE SECOND BOOK OF ESDRAS..
Chapter 1.
THE second book of the prophet Esdras, the son of Saraias, the son of Azaraias, the son of Helkias, the son of Salemas, the son of Sadoc, the son of Ahitob, 
the son of Achias, the son of Phinees, the son of Heli, the son of Amarias, the son of Aziei, the son of Marimoth, the son of Arna, the son of Ozias, the son of Borith, the son of Abissei, the son of Phinees, the son of Eleazar, 
the son of Aaron, of the tribe of Levi; which was captive in the land of the Medes, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of the Persians. 
And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 
Go thy way, and shew my people their sinful deeds, and their children their wickedness which they have done against me; that they may tell their children’s children: 
because the sins of their fathers are increased in them: for they have forgotten me, and have done sacrifice unto strange gods. 
Did I not bring them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage? but they have provoked me unto wrath, and have despised my counsels. 
Shake thou then the hair of thy head, and cast all evils upon them, for they have not been obedient unto my law, but it is a rebellious people. 
How long shall I forbear them, unto whom I have done so much good? 
Many kings have I overthrown for their sakes; Pharoah with his servants and all his host have I smitten down. 
All the nations have I destroyed before them, and in the east I have scattered the people of two provinces, even of Tyre and Sidon, and have slain all their adversaries. 
Speak thou therefore unto them, saying, 
Thus saith the Lord, of a truth I brought you through the sea, and where there was no path I made for you highways; I gave you Moses for a leader, and Aaron for a priest. 
I gave you light in a pillar of fire, and great wonders have I done among you; yet have ye forgotten me, saith the Lord. 
Thus saith the Lord Almighty, The quails were for a token to you; I gave you a camp for your safeguard, nevertheless ye murmured there: 
and ye triumphed not in my name for the destruction of your enemies, but ever to this day do ye yet murmur. 
Where are the benefits that I have done for you? when ye were hungry and thirsty in the wilderness, did ye not cry unto me, 
saying, Why hast thou brought us into this wilderness to kill us? it had been better for us to have served the Egyptians, than to die in this wilderness. 
I had pity upon your mournings, and gave you manna for food; ye did eat angels’ bread. 
When ye were thirsty, did I not cleave the rock, and waters flowed out to your fill? for the heat I covered you with the leaves of the trees. 
I divided among you fruitful lands; I cast out the Canaanites, the Pherezites, and the Philistines, before you: what shall I yet do more for you? saith the Lord. 
Thus saith the Lord Almighty, When ye were in the wilderness, at the bitter river, being athirst, and blaspheming my name, 
I gave you not fire for your blasphemies, but cast a tree in the water, and made the river sweet. 
What shall I do unto thee, O Jacob? thou, Judah, wouldest not obey me: I will turn me to other nations, and unto them will I give my name, that they may keep my statutes. 
Seeing ye have forsaken me, I also will forsake you; when ye ask me to be merciful unto you, I will have no mercy upon you. 
Whensoever ye shall call upon me, I will not hear you: for ye have defiled your hands with blood, and your feet are swift to commit manslaughter. 
Ye have not as it were forsaken me, but your own selves, saith the Lord. 
Thus saith the Lord Almighty, Have I not prayed you as a father his sons, as a mother her daughters, and a nurse her young babes, 
that ye would be my people, and I should be your God; that ye would be my children, and I should be your father? 
I gathered you together, as a hen gathereth  her chickens under her wings: but now, what shall I do unto you? I will cast you out from my presence. 
When ye offer oblations unto me, I will turn my face from you: for your solemn feast days, your new moons, and your circumcisions of the flesh, have I rejected. 
I sent unto you my servants the prophets, whom ye have taken and slain, and torn their bodies in pieces, whose blood I will require of your hands,  saith the Lord. 
Thus saith the Lord Almighty, Your house is desolate, I will cast you out as the wind doth stubble. 
And your children shall not be fruitful; for they have neglected my commandment unto you, and done that which is evil before me. 
Your houses will I give to a people that shall come; which not having heard of me yet believe me; they to whom I have shewed no signs shall do that which I have commanded. 
They have seen no prophets, yet they shall call their former estate to remembrance. 
I take to witness the grace of the people that shall come, whose little ones rejoice with gladness: and though they see me not with bodily eyes, yet in spirit they shall believe the thing that I say. 
And now, O father, behold with glory; and see the people that come from the east: 
unto whom I will give for leaders, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, Oseas, Amos, and Micheas, Joel, Abdias, and Jonas, 
Nahum, and Abacuc, Sophonias, Aggaeus, Zachary, and Malachy, which is called also the angel of the Lord. 
