Psalms.
Chapter 73.
A Psalm of Asaph. Surely God is good to Israel, even to such as are pure in heart. 
But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped. 
For I was envious at the arrogant, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 
For there are no bands in their death: but their strength is firm. 
They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they plagued like other men. 
Therefore pride is as a chain about their neck; violence covereth them as a garment. 
Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart could wish. 
They scoff, and in wickedness utter oppression: they speak loftily. 
They have set their mouth in the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth. 
Therefore his people return hither: and waters of a full cup are wrung out by them. 
And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the Most High? 
Behold, these are the wicked; and, being alway at ease, they increase in riches. 
Surely in vain have I cleansed my heart, and washed my hands in innocency; 
For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every morning. 
If I had said, I will speak thus; behold, I had dealt treacherously with the generation of thy children. 
When I thought how I might know this, it was too painful for me; 
Until I went into the sanctuary of God, and considered their latter end. 
Surely thou settest them in slippery places: thou castest them down to destruction. 
How are they become a desolation in a moment! they are utterly consumed with terrors. 
As a dream when one awaketh; so, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image. 
For my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins: 
So brutish was I, and ignorant; I was as a beast before thee. 
Nevertheless I am continually with thee: thou hast holden my right hand. 
Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory. 
Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee. 
My flesh and my heart faileth: but God is the strength of my heart and my portion for ever. 
For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: thou hast destroyed all them that go a whoring from thee. 
But it is good for me to draw near unto God: I have made the Lord GOD my refuge, that I may tell of all thy works. 
