Proverbs.
Chapter 12.
Whoso loveth correction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is brutish. 
A good man shall obtain favour of the LORD: but a man of wicked devices will he condemn. 
A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall never be moved. 
A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones. 
The thoughts of the righteous are just: but the counsels of the wicked are deceit. 
The words of the wicked are of lying in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them. 
The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand. 
A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised. 
Better is he that is lightly esteemed, and hath a servant, than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread. 
A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel. 
He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread: but he that followeth after vain persons is void of understanding. 
The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit. 
In the transgression of the lips is a snare to the evil man: but the righteous shall come out of trouble. 
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: and the doings of a man’s hands shall be rendered unto him. 
The way of the foolish is right in his own eyes: but he that is wise hearkeneth unto counsel. 
A fool’s vexation is presently known: but a prudent man concealeth shame. 
He that uttereth truth sheweth forth righteousness, but a false witness deceit. 
There is that speaketh rashly like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health. 
The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment. 
Deceit is in the heart of them that devise evil: but to the counsellors of peace is joy. 
There shall no mischief happen to the righteous: but the wicked shall be filled with evil. 
Lying lips are an abomination to the LORD: but they that deal truly are his delight. 
A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness. 
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be put under taskwork. 
Heaviness in the heart of a man maketh it stoop; but a good word maketh it glad. 
The righteous is a guide to his neighbour: but the way of the wicked causeth them to err. 
The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but the precious substance of men is to the diligent. 
In the way of righteousness is life; and in the pathway thereof there is no death. 
