SIRACH.
Chapter 3.
Hear me your father, O my children, And do thereafter, that ye may be saved. 
For the Lord hath given the father glory as touching the children, And hath confirmed the judgement of the mother as touching the sons. 
He that honoureth his father shall make atonement for sins: 
And he that giveth glory to his mother is as one that layeth up treasure. 
Whoso honoureth his father shall have joy of his children; And in the day of his prayer he shall be heard. 
He that giveth glory to his father shall have length of days; And he that hearkeneth unto the Lord shall bring rest unto his mother, 
And will do service under his parents, as unto masters. 
In deed and word honour thy father, That a blessing may come upon thee from him. 
For the blessing of the father establisheth the houses of children; But the curse of the mother rooteth out the foundations. 
Glorify not thyself in the dishonour of thy father; For thy father’s dishonour is no glory unto thee. 
For the glory of a man is from the honour of his father; And a mother in dishonour is a reproach to her children. 
My son, help thy father in his old age; And grieve him not as long as he liveth. 
And if he fail in understanding, have patience with him; And dishonour him not while thou art  in thy full strength. 
For the relieving of thy father shall not be forgotten: And instead of sins it shall be added to build thee up. 
In the day of thine affliction it shall remember thee; As fair weather upon ice, So shall thy sins also melt away. 
He that forsaketh his father is as a blasphemer; And he that provoketh his mother is cursed of the Lord. 
My son, go on with thy business in meekness; So shalt thou be beloved of an acceptable man. 
The greater thou art, humble thyself the more, And thou shalt find favour before the Lord. 
For great is the potency of the Lord, And he is glorified of them that are lowly. 
Seek not things that are too hard for thee, And search not out things that are above thy strength. 
The things that have been commanded thee, think thereupon; For thou hast no need of the things that are secret. 
Be not over busy in thy superfluous works: For more things are shewed unto thee than men can understand. 
For the conceit of many hath led them astray; And evil surmising hath caused their judgement to slip. 
A stubborn heart shall fare ill at the last; And he that loveth danger shall perish therein. 
A stubborn heart shall be laden with troubles; And the sinner shall heap sin upon sin. 
The calamity of the proud is no healing; For a plant of wickedness hath taken root in him. 
The heart of the prudent will understand a parable; And the ear of a listener is the desire of a wise man. 
Water will quench a flaming fire; And almsgiving will make atonement for sins. 
He that requiteth good turns is mindful of that which cometh afterward; And in the time of his falling he shall find a support. 
