SIRACH.
Chapter 47.
And after him rose up Nathan To prophesy in the days of David. 
As is the fat when it is separated from the peace offering, So was David separated  from the children of Israel. 
He played with lions as with kids, And with bears as with lambs of the flock. 
In his youth did he not slay a giant, And take away reproach from the people, When he lifted up his hand with a sling stone, And beat down the boasting of Goliath? 
For he called upon the Most High Lord; And he gave him strength in his right hand, To slay a man mighty in war, To exalt the horn of his people. 
So they glorified him for his  ten thousands, And praised him for the blessings of the Lord, In that there was given him a diadem of glory. 
For he destroyed the enemies on every side, And brought to nought the Philistines his adversaries, Brake their horn in pieces unto this day. 
In every work of his he gave thanks to the Holy One Most High with words of glory; With his whole heart he sang praise, And loved him that made him. 
Also he set singers before the altar, And to make sweet melody by their music. 
He gave comeliness to the feasts, And set in order the seasons to perfection, While they praised his holy name, And the sanctuary sounded from early morning. 
The Lord took away his sins, And exalted his horn for ever; And gave him a covenant of kings, And a throne of glory in Israel. 
After him rose up a son, a man of understanding; And for his sake he dwelt at large. 
Solomon reigned in days of peace; And to him God gave rest round about, That he might set up a house for his name, And prepare a sanctuary for ever. 
How wise wast thou made in thy youth, And filled as a river with understanding! 
Thy soul covered the earth, And thou filledst it with dark parables. 
Thy name reached unto the isles afar off; And for thy peace thou wast beloved. 
For thy songs and proverbs and parables, And for thine interpretations, the countries marvelled at thee. 
By the name of the Lord God, Which is called the God of Israel, Thou didst gather gold as tin, And didst multiply silver as lead. 
Thou didst bow thy loins unto women, And in thy body thou wast brought into subjection. 
Thou didst blemish thine honour, And profane thy seed, To bring wrath upon thy children; And I was grieved for thy folly: 
So that the sovereignty was divided, And out of Ephraim ruled a disobedient kingdom. 
But the Lord will never forsake his mercy; And he will not destroy any of his works, Nor blot out the posterity of his elect; And the seed of him that loved him he will not take away; And he gave a remnant unto Jacob, And unto David a root out of him. 
And so  rested Solomon with his fathers; And of his seed he left behind him Rehoboam, Even  the foolishness of the people, and one that lacked understanding, Who made the people to revolt by his counsel. Also Jeroboam the son of Nebat, Who made Israel to sin, And gave unto Ephraim a way of sin. 
And their sins were multiplied exceedingly, To remove them from their land. 
For they sought out all manner of wickedness, Till vengeance should come upon them. 
