Tobit.
Chapter 7.
And they came to Ecbatana, and arrived at the house of Raguel. But Sarah met them; and she saluted them, and they her; and she brought them into the house. 
And he said to Edna his wife, How like is the young man to Tobit my cousin. 
And Raguel asked them, From whence are ye, brethren? And they said unto him, We are of the sons of Naphtali, which are captives in Nineveh. 
And he said unto them, Know ye Tobit our brother? But they said, We know him. And he said unto them, Is he in good health? 
But they said, He is both alive, and in good health: and Tobias said, He is my father. 
And Raguel sprang up, and kissed him, and wept, 
and blessed him, and said unto him, Thou art the son of an honest and good man. And when he had heard that Tobit had lost his sight, he was grieved, and wept; 
and Edna his wife and Sarah his daughter wept. And they received them gladly; and they killed a ram of the flock, and set store of meat before them. But Tobias said to Raphael, Brother Azarias, speak of those things of which thou didst talk in the way, and let the matter be finished. 
And he communicated the thing to Raguel: and Raguel said to Tobias, Eat and drink, and make merry: 
for it appertaineth unto thee to take my child. Howbeit I will shew thee the truth. 
I have given my child to seven men, and whensoever they came in unto her, they died in the night. But for the present be merry. And Tobias said, I will taste nothing here, until ye make covenant and enter into covenant with me. 
And Raguel said, Take her to thyself from henceforth according to the manner: thou art her brother, and she is thine: but the merciful God shall give all good success to you. 
And he called his daughter Sarah, and took her by the hand, and gave her to be wife to Tobias, and said, Behold, take her to thyself after the law of Moses, and lead her away to thy father. And he blessed them; 
And he called Edna his wife, and took a book, and wrote an instrument, and sealed it. 
And they began to eat. 
And Raguel called his wife Edna, and said unto her, Sister, prepare the other chamber, and bring her in thither. 
And she did as he bade her, and brought her in thither: and she wept, and she received the tears of her daughter, and said unto her, 
Be of good comfort, my child; the Lord of heaven and earth give thee favour for this thy sorrow: be of good comfort, my daughter. 
