Psalms.
Chapter 22.
For the Chief Musician; set to Aijeleth hash-Shahar. A Psalm of David. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why art thou so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring? 
O my God, I cry in the day-time, but thou answerest not; and in the night season, and am not silent. 
But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel. 
Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver them. 
They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee, and were not ashamed. 
But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people. 
All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, 
Commit thyself unto the LORD; let him deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighteth in him. 
But thou art he that took me out the womb: thou didst make me trust when I was upon my mother’s breasts. 
I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou art my God from my mother’s belly. 
Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to help. 
Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round. 
They gape upon me with their mouth, as a ravening and a roaring lion. 
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels. 
My Strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death. 
For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of evil-doers have enclosed me; they pierced my hands and my feet. 
I may tell all my bones; they look and stare upon me: 
They part my garments among them, and upon my vesture do they cast lots. 
But be not thou far off, O LORD: O thou my succour, haste thee to help me. 
Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog; 
Save me from the lion’s mouth; yea, from the horns of the wild-oxen thou hast answered me. 
I will declare thy name unto my brethren: in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. 
Ye that fear the LORD, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and stand in awe of him, all ye the seed of Israel. 
For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard. 
Of thee cometh my praise in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him. 
The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD that seek after him: let your heart live for ever. 
All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn unto the LORD: and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. 
For the kingdom is the LORD’S: and he is the ruler over the nations. 
All the fat ones of the earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him, even he that cannot keep his soul alive. 
A seed shall serve him; it shall be told of the Lord unto the next generation. 
They shall come and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done it. 
