SIRACH.
Chapter 32.
Have they made thee ruler of a feast?  Be not lifted up, Be thou among them as one of them; Take thought for them, and so sit down. 
And when thou hast done all thy office, take thy place, That thou mayest be gladdened on their account, And receive a crown for thy well ordering. 
Speak, thou that art the elder, for it becometh thee, but  with sound knowledge; And hinder not music. 
Pour not out talk where there is a performance of music, And display not thy wisdom out of season. 
As  a signet of carbuncle in a setting of gold, So  is a concert of music in a banquet of wine. 
As  a signet of emerald in a work of gold, So  is a strain of music with pleasant wine. 
Speak, young man, if there be need of thee; Yet  scarcely if thou be twice asked. 
Sum up thy speech, many things in few words; Be as one that knoweth and yet holdeth his tongue. 
If thou be  among great men, behave not as their equal; And when another is speaking, make not much babbling. 
Before thunder speedeth lightning; And before a shamefast man favour shall go forth. 
Rise up betimes, and be not the last; Get thee home quickly and loiter not: 
There take thy pastime, and do what is in thy heart; And sin not by proud speech: 
And for these things bless him that made thee, And giveth thee to drink freely of his good things. 
He that feareth the Lord will receive his  discipline; And they that seek him  early shall find favour. 
He that seeketh the law shall be filled therewith: But the hypocrite shall stumble thereat. 
They that fear the Lord shall find judgement, And shall kindle righteous acts as a light. 
A sinful man shunneth reproof, And will find a judgement according to his will. 
A man of counsel will not neglect a thought; A strange and proud man will not crouch in fear, Even after he hath done a thing by himself without counsel. 
Do nothing without counsel; And when thou hast once done, repent not. 
Go not in a way of conflict; And stumble not in stony places. 
Be not confident in a smooth way. 
And beware of thine own children. 
In every work trust thine own soul; For this is the keeping of the commandments. 
He that believeth the law giveth heed to the commandment; And he that trusteth in the Lord shall suffer no loss. 
