SIRACH.
Chapter 20.
There is a reproof that is not comely; And there is a man that keepeth silence, and he is wise. 
How good is it to reprove, rather than to be wroth; And he that maketh confession shall be kept back from hurt. 
As is the lust of an eunuch to deflower a virgin; So is he that executeth judgements with violence. 
There is one that keepeth silence, and is found wise; And there is one that is hated for his much talk. 
There is one that keepeth silence, for he hath no answer to make; And there is that keepeth silence, as knowing his time. 
A wise man will be silent till his time come; But the braggart and fool will overpass his time. 
He that useth many words shall be abhorred; And he that taketh to himself authority therein shall be hated. 
There is a prosperity that a man findeth in misfortunes; And there is a gain that turneth to loss. 
There is a gift that shall not profit thee; And there is a gift whose recompense is double. 
There is an abasement because of glory; And there is that hath lifted up his head from a low estate. 
There is that buyeth much for a little, And payeth for it again sevenfold. 
He that is wise in words shall make himself beloved; But the pleasantries of fools shall be wasted. 
The gift of a fool shall not profit thee; For his eyes are many instead of one. 
He will give little, and upbraid much; And he will open his mouth like a crier: To-day he will lend, and to-morrow he will ask it again: Such an one is a hateful man. 
The fool will say, I have no friend, And I have no thanks for my good deeds; They that eat my bread are of evil tongue. 
How oft, and of how many, shall he be laughed to scorn! 
A slip on a pavement is better than a slip  with the tongue; So the fall of the wicked shall come speedily. 
A man without grace is as  a tale out of season: It will be continually in the mouth of the ignorant. 
A wise sentence from a fool’s mouth will be rejected; For he will not speak it in its season. 
There is that is hindered from sinning through want; And when he taketh rest, he shall not be troubled. 
There is that destroyeth his soul through bashfulness; And by a foolish countenance he will destroy it. 
There is that for bashfulness promiseth to his friend; And he maketh him his enemy for nothing. 
A lie is a foul blot in a man: It will be continually in the mouth of the ignorant. 
A thief is better than a man that is continually lying: But they both shall inherit destruction. 
The disposition of a liar is dishonour; And his shame is with him continually. 
He that is wise in words shall advance himself; And one that is prudent will please great men. 
He that tilleth his land shall raise his heap high; And he that pleaseth great men shall get pardon for iniquity. 
Presents and gifts blind the eyes of the wise, And as a muzzle on the mouth, turn away reproofs. 
Wisdom that is hid, and treasure that is out of sight, What profit is in them both? 
Better is a man that hideth his folly Than a man that hideth his wisdom. 
