Proverbs.
Chapter 11.
A FALSE balance is an abomination to the LORD: but a just weight is his delight. 
When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is wisdom. 
The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of the treacherous shall destroy them. 
Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivereth from death. 
The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness. 
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but they that deal treacherously shall be taken in their own mischief. 
When a wicked man dieth his expectation shall perish: and the hope of iniquity perisheth. 
The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead. 
With his mouth the godless man destroyeth his neighbour: but through knowledge shall the righteous be delivered. 
When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and when the wicked perish, there is shouting. 
By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. 
He that despiseth his neighbour is void of wisdom: but a man of understanding holdeth his peace. 
He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter. 
Where no wise guidance is, the people falleth: but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety. 
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: but he that hateth suretiship is sure. 
A gracious woman retaineth honour: and violent men retain riches. 
The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh. 
The wicked earneth deceitful wages: but he that soweth righteousness hath a sure reward. 
He that is stedfast in righteousness shall attain unto life: and he that pursueth evil doeth it to his own death. 
They that are perverse in heart are an abomination to the LORD: but such as are perfect in their way are his delight. 
Though hand join in hand, the evil man shall not be unpunished: but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered. 
As a jewel of gold in a swine’s snout, so is a fair woman which is without discretion. 
The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of the wicked is wrath. 
There is that scattereth, and increaseth yet more; and there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth only to want. 
The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself. 
He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it. 
He that diligently seeketh good seeketh favour: but he that searcheth after mischief, it shall come unto him. 
He that trusteth in his riches shall fall: but the righteous shall flourish as the green leaf. 
He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the foolish shall be servant to the wise of heart. 
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that is wise winneth souls. 
Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: how much more the wicked and the sinner! 
