Tobit.
Chapter 11.
After these things Tobias also went his way, blessing God because he had prospered his journey; and he blessed Raguel and Edna his wife. And he went on his way till they drew near unto Nineveh. 
And Raphael said to Tobias, Knowest thou not, brother, how thou didst leave thy father? 
Let us run forward before thy wife, and prepare the house. 
But take in thy hand the gall of the fish. And they went their way, and the dog went after them. 
And Anna sat looking about toward the way for her son. 
And she espied him coming, and said to his father, Behold, thy son cometh, and the man that went with him. 
And Raphael said, I know, Tobias, that thy father will open his eyes. 
Do thou therefore anoint his eyes with the gall, and being pricked therewith, he shall rub, and shall make the white films to fall away, and he shall see thee. 
And Anna ran unto him, and fell upon the neck of her son, and said unto him, I have seen thee, my child; from henceforth I will die. And they wept both. 
And Tobit went forth toward the door, and stumbled: but his son ran unto him, 
and took hold of his father: and he strake the gall on his father’s eyes, saying, Be of good cheer, my father. 
But when his eyes began to smart, he rubbed them; 
and the white films scaled away from the corners of his eyes; and he saw his son, and fell upon his neck. 
And he wept, and said, Blessed art thou, O God, and blessed is thy name for ever, and blessed are all thy holy angels; 
for thou didst scourge, and didst have mercy on me: behold, I see my son Tobias. And his son went in rejoicing, and told his father the great things that had happened to him in Media. 
And Tobit went out to meet his daughter in law at the gate of Nineveh, rejoicing, and blessing God: and they which saw him go marvelled, because he had received his sight. 
And Tobit gave thanks before them, because God had shewed mercy on him. And when Tobit came near to Sarah his daughter in law, he blessed her, saying, Welcome, daughter: blessed is God which hath brought thee unto us, and blessed are  thy father and thy mother. And there was joy to all his brethren which were at Nineveh. 
And Achiacharus, and Nasbas his brother’s son, came: 
and Tobias’ wedding feast was kept seven days with great gladness. 
