Tobit.
Chapter 8.
And when they had finished their supper, they brought Tobias in unto her. 
But as he went, he remembered the words of Raphael, and took the ashes of the incense, and put the heart and the liver of the fish thereupon, and made a smoke therewith.  
But when the devil smelled the smell, he fled into the uppermost parts of Egypt, and the angel bound him. 
But after they were both shut in together, Tobias rose up from the bed, and said, Sister, arise, and let us pray that the Lord may have mercy on us. 
And Tobias began to say, Blessed art thou, O God of our fathers, and blessed is thy holy and glorious name for ever; let the heavens bless thee, and all thy creatures. 
Thou madest Adam, and gavest him Eve his wife for a helper and a stay: of them came the seed of men: thou didst say, it is not good that the man should be alone; let us make him a helper like unto him. 
And now, O Lord, I take not this my sister for lust, but in truth: command that I may find mercy and grow old with her. 
And she said with him, Amen. And they slept both that night. 
And Raguel arose, and went and digged a grave, 
saying, Lest he also should die. 
And Raguel came into his house, 
and said to Edna his wife, Send one of the maidservants, and let them see whether he be alive: but if not, that we may bury him, and no man know it. 
So the maidservant opened the door, and went in, and found them both sleeping, 
and came forth, and told them that he was alive. 
And Raguel blessed God, saying, Blessed art thou, O God, with all pure and holy blessing; and let thy saints bless thee, and all thy creatures; and let all thine angels and thine elect bless thee for ever. 
Blessed art thou, because thou hast made me glad; and it hath not befallen me as I suspected; but thou hast dealt with us according to thy great mercy. 
Blessed art thou, because thou hast had mercy on two that were the only begotten children of their parents: shew them mercy, O Lord; accomplish their life in health with gladness and mercy. 
But he commanded his servants to fill the grave. 
And he kept the wedding feast for them fourteen days. 
And before the days of the wedding feast were finished, Raguel sware unto him, that he should not depart till the fourteen days of the wedding feast were fulfilled; 
and that then he should take the half of his goods, and go in safety to his father; and the rest, said he,  when I and my wife shall die. 
