Tobit.
Chapter 4.
In that day Tobit remembered concerning the money which he had left in trust with Gabael in Rages of Media, 
and he said in himself, I have asked for death; why do I not call my son Tobias, that I may shew to him of the money  before I die? 
And he called him, and said, My child, when I die, bury me: and despise not thy mother; honour her all the days of thy life, and do that which is pleasing unto her, and grieve her not. 
Remember, my child, that she hath seen many dangers for thee, when thou wast  in her womb. When she is dead, bury her by me in one grave. 
My child, be mindful of the Lord our God all thy days, and let not thy will be set to sin and to transgress his commandments: do righteousness all the days of thy life, and follow not the ways of unrighteousness. 
For if thou doest the truth, thy doings shall prosperously succeed to thee, and to all them that do righteousness. 
Give alms of thy substance; and when thou givest alms, let not thine eye be envious: turn not away thy face from any poor man, and the face of God shall not be turned away from thee. 
As thy substance is, give alms of it according to thine abundance: if thou have little, be not afraid to give alms according to that little: 
for thou layest up a good treasure for thyself against the day of necessity: 
because alms delivereth from death, and suffereth not to come into darkness. 
Alms is a good gift in the sight of the Most High for all that give it. 
Beware, my child, of all whoredom, and take first a wife of the seed of thy fathers, and take not a strange wife, which is not of thy father’s tribe: for we are the sons of the prophets. Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, our fathers of old time, remember, my child, that they all took wives of their brethren, and were blessed in their children, and their seed shall inherit the land. 
And now, my child, love thy brethren, and scorn not in thy heart thy brethren, and the sons and the daughters of thy people, to take a wife of them: for in scornfulness is destruction and much trouble, and in naughtiness is decay and great want: for naughtiness is the mother of famine. 
Let not the wages of any man, which shall work for thee, tarry with thee, but render it unto him out of hand: and if thou serve God, recompense shall be made unto thee. Take heed to thyself, my child, in all thy works, and be discreet in all thy behaviour. 
And what thou thyself hatest, do to no man. Drink not wine unto drunkenness, and let not drunkenness go with thee on thy way. 
Give of thy bread to the hungry, and of thy garments to them that are naked: of all thine abundance give alms; and let not thine eye be envious when thou givest alms. 
Pour out thy bread on the burial of the just, and give nothing to sinners. 
Ask counsel of every man that is wise, and despise not any counsel that is profitable. 
And bless the Lord thy God at all times, and ask of him that thy ways may be made straight, and that all thy paths and counsels may prosper: for every nation hath not counsel; but the Lord himself giveth all good things, and he humbleth whom he will, as he will. And now, my child, remember my commandments, and let them not be blotted out of thy mind. 
And now I shew thee of the ten talents of silver, which I left in trust with Gabael the son of Gabrias at Rages of Media. 
And fear not, my child, because we are made poor: thou hast much wealth, if thou fear God, and depart from all sin, and do that which is pleasing in his sight. 
