The Anglican Use Liturgy in the Roman Catholic Church


In 1980, A Pastoral Provision was granted by Pope John Paul II allowing
the use of an Anglican-style liturgy in parishes made up of former
Episcopalians. To the best of my knowledge there are eleven Roman
Catholic parishes in the United States that use an Anglican Use
liturgy.

The Order of Mass

A hymn, psalm or anthem may be sung.

The people standing, the celebrant may say,

Blessed be God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

R. And blessed be his kingdom, now and for ever. Amen.

In place of the above, from Easter through Pentecost.

Alleluia. Christ is Risen.

R. The Lord is ris'n indeed. Alleluia.

In Lent and on other penitential occasions,

Bless the Lord who forgiveth all our sins.

R. His mercy endureth for ever.

The Celebrant says:

Almighty God, unto whom all hearts are open, all desires known, and
from whom no secrets are hid: Cleanse the thoughts of our hearts by the
inspiration of thy Holy Spirit, that we may perfectly love thee, and
worthily magnify thy holy Name; through Christ our Lord.

R. Amen.

Then the Decalogue may be said, or the summary of the Law.

God spake these words, and said: I am the LORD thy God, Thou shalt have
none other gods but me.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law.

Thou shalt not make to thyself any graven images, nor the likeness of
anything that is in heaven above, or in the earth beneath, or in the
water under the earth; thou shalt not bow down to them, nor worship
them; for I the LORD thy God am a jealous God, and visit the sins of
the fathers upon the children, unto the third and fourth generation of
them that hate me, and show mercy unto thousands of them that love me
and keep my commandments.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law.

Thou shalt not take the Name of the LORD thy God in vain; for the LORD
will not hold him guiltless, that taketh His Name in vain.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law.

Remember that thou keep holy the Sabbath-day. Six days shalt thou
labor, and do all that thou hast to do; but the seventh day is the
Sabbath of the LORD thy God. In it thou shalt do no manner of work;
thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, thy man-servant, and thy
maid-servant, thy cattle, and the stranger that is within thy gates.
For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that
in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the LORD blessed the
seventh day, and hallowed it.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law.

Honor thy father and thy mother; that thy days may be long in the land
which the LORD thy God giveth thee.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law.

Thou shalt do no murder.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law.

Thou shalt not commit adultery.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law.

Thou shalt not steal.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law.

Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law.

Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy
neighbor's wife, nor his servant, nor his maid, nor his ox, nor his
ass, nor any thing that is his.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us, and write all these thy laws in our
hearts, we beseech thee.


Or the Summary of the Law:

Hear what our Lord Jesus Christ saith: Thou shalt love the LORD thy God
will all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This
is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it:
Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang
all the Law and the Prophets.

Here is sung or said, in English or in Greek

Lord, have mercy upon us.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us.

Lord, have mercy upon us.

Christ, have mercy upon us.

R. Christ, have mercy upon us.

Christ, have mercy upon us.

Lord, have mercy upon us.

R. Lord, have mercy upon us.

Lord, have mercy upon us.

Kyrie eleison.

R. Kyrie eleison.

Kyrie eleison.

Christe eleison.

R. Christe eleison.

Christe eleison.

Kyrie eleison.

R. Kyrie eleison.

Kyrie eleison.


Or the Trisgaion:

Holy God,

Holy and Mighty,

Holy Immortal One:

R. Have mercy upon us.

When appointed, the following is sung or said, all standing:

Glory be to God on high, and on earth peace, good will towards men. We
praise thee, we bless thee, we worship thee, we glorify thee, we give
thanks to thee for thy great glory, O Lord God, heavenly King, God the
Father Almighty. O Lord, the only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ; O Lord
God, Lamb of God, Son of the Father, that takest away the sins of the
world, have mercy upon us. Thou that takest away the sins of the world,
receive our prayer. Thou that sittest at the right hand of God the
Father, have mercy upon us. For thou only art holy; thou only art the
Lord; thou only, O Christ, with the Holy Ghost, art most high in the
glory of God the Father. Amen.

The Celebrant says to the people:

The Lord be with you.

R. And with thy spirit.

Let us pray.


The Celebrant says the Collect

R. Amen.


The Liturgy of the Word

The people sit.

One or two lessons, as appointed, are read, the reader first saying:

A Reading (Lesson) from __________.

After each reading, the reader may say:

The Word of the Lord. R. Thanks be to God.

A psalm, hymn or anthem may follow each reading.

Then, all standing, the Deacon or a Priest reads the Gospel, first
saying:

The Lord be with you.

R. And with thy spirit.

The Holy Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ according to _____________.

R. Glory be to thee, O Lord.

After the Gospel, the Reader says:

The Gospel of the Lord.

R. Praise be to thee, O Christ.


Sermon

On Sundays and Solemnities, there follows the Nicene Creed, all
standing:

I believe in one God, the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth,
and of all things visible and invisible; And in one Lord Jesus Christ,
the only-begotten Son of God, begotten of his Father before all worlds,
God of God, Light of Light, very God of very God, begotten not made,
being of one substance with the Father; by whom all things were made;
who for us men and for our salvation came down from heaven,
(genuflect) and was incarnate by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary, and
was made man; (stand) and was crucified also for us under Pontius
Pilate; he suffered and was buried; and the third day he rose again
according to the Scriptures, and ascended into heaven, and sitteth on
the right hand of the Father; and he shall come again, with glory, to
judge both the quick and the dead; whose kingdom shall have no end. And
I believe in the Holy Ghost the Lord, and Giver of Life, who proceedeth
from the Father and the Son; who with the Father and the Son together
is worshipped and glorified; who spake by the Prophets. And I believe
in one holy Catholic and Apostolic Church; I acknowledge one Baptism
for the remission of sins; and I look for the resurrection of the dead,
and the life of the world to come. Amen.


Intercession is offered, according to one of the following forms:


Intercession 1


C: Let us pray for the whole state of Christ's Church and the world.

The Celebrant, Deacon or other minister continues:

Almighty and everliving God, who in thy holy Word hast taught us to
make prayers, and supplications, and to give thanks for all men:
Receive these our prayers which we offer unto thy divine Majesty,
beseeching thee to inspire continually the Universal Church with the
spirit of truth, unity, and concord; and grant that all those who do
confess thy holy Name may agree in the truth of thy holy Word, and live
in unity and godly love.

Give grace, O heavenly Father, to N. our Pope, N. our bishop and to all
bishops and other ministers, that they may, both by their life and
doctrine, set forth thy true and lively Word, and rightly and duly
administer thy holy Sacraments.

And to all thy people give thy heavenly grace, and especially to this
congregation here present; that, with meek heart and due reverence,
they may hear and receive thy holy Word, truly serving thee in holiness
and righteousness all the days of their life.

We beseech thee also so to rule the hearts of those who bear the
authority of government in this and every land, that they may be led to
wise decisions and right actions for the welfare and peace of the
world.

Open, O Lord, the eyes of all people to behold thy gracious hand in all
thy works, that, rejoicing in thy whole creation, they may honor thee
with their substance, and be faithful stewards of thy bounty.

And we most humbly beseech thee, of thy goodness, O Lord, to comfort
and succor all those who, in this transitory life, are in trouble,
sorrow, need, sickness, or any other adversity.

And we also bless thy holy Name for all thy servants departed this life
in thy faith and fear, beseeching thee to be merciful and grant them
fullness of joy in thy love and service; and to grant us grace so to
follow the good examples of the Blessed Virgin Mary and of all thy
saints, that with them we may be partakers of thy heavenly kingdom.

The Celebrant concludes:

Grant these our prayers, O Father, for Jesus Christ's sake, our only
Mediator and Advocate.

R. Amen.


Intercession II


Deacon, or other leader:

Let us pray for the whole state of Christ's Church and the world.

Father, we pray for thy holy Catholic Church;

R. That we all may be one.

Grant that every member of thy Church may truly and humbly serve thee;

R. That thy name may be glorified by all people.

We pray for all bishops, priests, and deacons;

R. That they may be faithful ministers of thy Word and Sacraments.

We pray for all who govern and hold authority in the nations of the
world;

R. That there may be justice and peace on the earth.

Give us grace to do thy will in all that we undertake;

R. That our works may find favor in thy sight.

Have compassion on those who suffer from any grief or trouble;

R. That they may be delivered from their distress.

Give to the departed eternal rest;

R. Let light perpetual shine upon them.

We praise thee for thy saints who have entered into joy;

R. May we also come to share in thy heavenly kingdom.

Let us pray for our own needs and those of others.

Silence

The celebrant says:

Thine is the majesty, O Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; thine is the
kingdom, and the power, and the glory, now and for ever. Amen.



Intercession III

With all our heart and with all our mind, let us pray to the Lord,
saying, "Lord, have mercy."

For the peace from above, for the loving-kindness of God, and for the
salvation of our souls, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

For the peace of the world, for the welfare of the holy Church of God,
and for the unity of all peoples, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

For N., our Pope, N., our Bishop, and for all the clergy and people,
let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

For our president, for the leaders of the nations, and for all in
authority, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

For this city, (town, village, _____,) for every city and community,
and for those who live in them, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

For seasonable weather, and for an abundance of the fruits of the
earth, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

For the good earth which God has given us, and for the wisdom and will
to conserve it, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

For the aged and infirm, for the widowed and orphaned, and for the sick
and suffering, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

For _____, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

For the poor and the oppressed, for the unemployed and the destitute,
for prisoners and captives, and for all who remember and care for them,
let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

+For all who have died in the hope of the resurrection, and for all the
departed, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

For deliverance from all danger, violence, oppression, and degradation,
let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

For the absolution and remission of our sins and offenses, let us pray
to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

That we may end our lives in faith and hope, without suffering and
without reproach, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, have mercy.

In the communion of Blessed Mary ever virgin, [St ______ and of all the
saints,] let us commend ourselves and one another, and all our life to
Christ our God.

To thee, O Lord our God.

Silence

The celebrant adds a concluding collect.



The Penitential Rite

The Celebrant or Deacon says:

Ye who do truly and earnestly repent you of your sins, and are in love
and charity with your neighbors, and intend to lead a new life,
following the commandments of God, and walking from henceforth in his
holy ways: Draw near with faith, and make your humble confession to
Almighty God, devoutly kneeling.

All join in saying:

Almighty God, Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, maker of all things,
judge of all men: We acknowledge and bewail our manifold sins and
wickedness, which we from time to time most grievously have committed,
by thought, word, and deed, against thy divine Majesty, provoking most
justly thy wrath and indignation against us. We do earnestly repent,
and are heartily sorry for these our misdoings; the remembrance of them
is grievous unto us, most merciful Father; for thy Son our Lord Jesus
Christ's sake, forgive us all that is past; and grant that we may ever
hereafter serve and please thee in newness of life, to the honor and
glory of thy Name; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

The Celebrant says:

May Almighty God, our heavenly Father, who of his great mercy hath
promised forgiveness of sins to all those who with hearty repentance
and true faith turn to him, have mercy upon us, pardon and deliver us
from all our sins, confirm and strengthen us in all goodness, and bring
us to everlasting life; through Jesus Christ our Lord. R. Amen.

The Celebrant, Deacon, or other minister may then say one or more of
the following sentences, first saying:

Hear the Word of God to all who truly turn to him.

Come unto me, all ye that travail and are heavy laden, and I will
refresh you. Matthew 11:28

God so loved the world, that he gave his only-begotten Son, to the end
that all that believe in him should not perish but have everlasting
life. John 3:16

This is a true saying, and worthy of all men to be received, that
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. 1 Timothy 1:15

If any man sin, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the
righteous; and he is the perfect offering for our sins, and not for
ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. 1 John 2:1-2

The Celebrant says:

The peace of the Lord be always with you.

R. And with thy spirit.


The Liturgy of the Eucharist

During the Offertory a psalm, hymn or anthem may be sung:

The Celebrant, standing at the altar, takes the paten with the bread
and, holding it slightly raised above the altar, says quietly:

Blessed are you, Lord, God of all creation. Through your goodness we
have this bread to offer, which earth has given and human hands have
made. It will become for us the bread of life.

If there is no music, the people may respond:

R. Blessed be God for ever.

The Deacon (or the Priest) pours wine and a little water into the
chalice, saying quietly:

By the mystery of this water and wine may we come to share in the
divinity of Christ, who humbled himself to share in our humanity.

Then the Celebrant takes the Chalice and, holding it slightly raised
above the altar, says quietly:

Blessed are you, Lord, God of all creation. Through your goodness we
have this wine to offer, fruit of the vine and work of human hands. It
will become our spiritual drink.

If there is no music, the people may respond:

R. Blessed be God for ever.

The Priest bows and says quietly:

Lord God, we ask you to receive us and be pleased with the sacrifice we
offer you with humble and contrite hearts.

He may now cense the offerings and the altar, and afterwards the
thurifer may incense the people.

The Priest, standing at the side of the altar, washes his hands, saying
quietly:

Lord, wash away my iniquity; cleanse me from my sin.

Standing at the center of the altar, he faces the people and says:

Pray, brethren, that our sacrifice may be acceptable to God, the
almighty Father.

R. May the Lord accept the sacrifice at your hands for the praise and
glory of his name, for our good, and the good of all his Church.

With hands extended, the priest sings or says the prayers over the
gifts, after which the people respond:

R. Amen.

The Great Thanksgiving


The Celebrant, whether bishop or priest, faces the people and sings or
says:

The Lord be with you.

R. And with thy spirit.

Lift up your hearts.

R. We lift them up unto the Lord.

Let us give thanks unto our Lord God.

R. It is meet and right so to do.

Then, facing the Altar, the Celebrant continues:

It is very meet, right, and our bounden duty, that we should at all
times, and in all places, give thanks unto thee, O Lord, holy Father,
almighty, everlasting God.

Here a proper preface is sung or said on all Sundays, and on other
occasions as appointed:

Therefore with Angels and Archangels, and with the company of heaven,
we laud and magnify thy glorious Name; evermore praising thee, and
saying,

Holy, Holy, Holy Lord God of Hosts: Heaven and earth are full of thy
glory. Glory be to thee, O Lord Most High. Blessed is he that cometh in
the Name of the Lord. Hosanna in the Highest.

The priest, with hands extended, says:

Most merciful Father, we humbly pray thee, through Jesus Christ thy Son
our Lord, and we ask, that thou accept and + bless these gifts, these
presents, these holy and unspoiled sacrifices.

We offer them unto thee, first, for thy holy Catholic Church: that thou
vouchsafe to keep it in peace, to guard, unite, and govern it
throughout the whole world; together with thy servant N. our Pope, and
N. our Bishop, and all the faithful guardians of the Catholic and
Apostolic faith.

Remember, O Lord, thy servants and handmaids (N. and N.) and all who
here around us stand, whose faith is known unto thee and their
steadfastness manifest, on whose behalf we offer unto thee: or who
themselves offer unto thee this sacrifice of praise, for themselves,
and for all who are theirs: for the redemption of their souls, for the
hope of their salvation and safety: and who offer their prayers unto
thee, the eternal God, the living and true.

United in one communion, we venerate the memory, first, of the glorious
ever-Virgin Mary, Mother of our God and Lord Jesus Christ, of Joseph
her spouse; as also of thy blessed Apostles and Martyrs, Peter and
Paul, Andrew, (James, John, Thomas, James, Philip, Bartholomew,
Matthew, Simon and Thaddaeus: Linus, Cletus, Clement, Xystys,
Cornelius, Cyprian, Lawrence, Chrysogonus, John and Paul, Cosmas and
Damian) and of all thy Saints; grant that by their merits and prayers
we may in all things be defended with the help of thy protection.

We beseech thee then, O Lord, graciously to accept this oblation from
us thy servants, and from thy whole family: order thou our days in thy
peace, and bid us to be delivered from eternal damnation, and to be
numbered in the fold of thine elect.

Vouchsafe, O God, we beseech thee, in all things to make this oblation
blessed, approved and accepted, a perfect and worthy offering: that it
may become for us the body and blood of thy dearly beloved Son, our
Lord Jesus Christ.

Who, the day before he suffered, took bread into his holy and venerable
hands, and with eyes lifted up to heaven unto thee, God, his almighty
Father, giving thanks to thee, he blessed, broke, and gave it to his
disciples, saying:

"Take this, all of you, and eat it: This is my Body which will be given
up for you."

The priest shows the consecrated Host to the people, places it on the
paten, and genuflects in adoration.

Likewise, after supper, taking also this goodly chalice into his holy
and venerable hands, again giving thanks to thee, he blessed, and gave
it to his disciples saying:

"Take this, all of you, and drink from it: This is the cup of my Blood,
the Blood of the new and everlasting covenant. It will be shed for you
and for all so that sins may be forgiven. Do this in memory of me."

The priest shows the chalice to the people, places it on the corporal,
and genuflects in adoration.

He then sings or says:

Therefore we proclaim the mystery of faith:

All: Christ has died. Christ is risen. Christ will come again.

With hands extended, the priest continues:

Wherefore, O Lord, we thy servants, and thy holy people also,
remembering the blessed passion of the same Christ thy Son our Lord, as
also his resurrection from the dead, and his glorious ascension into
heaven: do offer unto thine excellent majesty of thine own gifts and
bounty, the pure Victim, the Holy Victim, the immaculate Victim, the
holy Bread of eternal life, and the Chalice of everlasting salvation.

Vouchsafe to look upon them with a merciful and pleasant countenance:
and to accept them, even as thou didst vouchsafe to accept the gifts of
thy servant Abel the Righteous, and the sacrifice of our Patriarch
Abraham: and the holy sacrifice, the immaculate victim, which thy high
priest Melchisedech offered unto thee.

We humbly beseech thee, almighty God: command these offerings to be
brought by the hands of thy holy Angel to thine altar on high, in sight
of thy divine majesty: that all we who at this partaking of the altar
shall receive the most sacred Body and Blood of thy Son, + may be
fulfilled with all heavenly benediction and grace.

Remember also, O Lord, thy servants and handmaids (N. and N.), who have
gone before us sealed with the seal of faith, and who sleep the sleep
of peace. To them, O Lord, and to all that rest in Christ, we beseech
thee to grant the abode of refreshing, of light, and of peace.

To us sinners also, thy servants, who hope in the multitude of thy
mercies, vouchsafe to grant some part and fellowship with thy holy
Apostles and Martyrs: with John, Stephen, Matthias, Barnabas,
(Ignatius, Alexander, Marcellinus, Peter, Felicitas, Perpetua, Agatha,
Lucy, Agnes, Cecelia, Anastasia), and with all thy Saints: within whose
fellowship we beseech thee, admit us, not weighing our merit, but
granting us forgiveness; through Jesus Christ our Lord;

Through whom, O Lord, thou dost ever create all these good things; dost
sanctify, quicken, bless, and bestow them upon us.

By whom, and with whom, and in whom, in the unity of the Holy Ghost,
all honor and glory be unto thee, O Father Almighty, world without end.

R. Amen.

And now, as our Savior Christ hath taught us, we are bold to say,

All: Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy Name, thy kingdom
come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day
our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who
tresspass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us
from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for
ever and ever. Amen.

The celebrant breaks the consecrated Bread.

A period of silence is kept.

Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia. Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us;
therefore let us keep the feast. Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

In Lent, Alleluia is omitted, and may be omitted at other times, except
during Eastertide.

Here is sung or said the Agnus Dei:

O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world, have mercy upon
us.

O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world, have mercy upon
us.

O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world, grant us thy
peace.

The following prayer may be said. The people may join in this prayer.

We do not presume to come to this thy Table, O merciful Lord, trusting
in our own righteousness, but in thy manifold and great mercies. We are
not worthy so much as to gather up the crumbs under thy Table. But thou
art the same Lord whose property is always to have mercy. Grant us
therefore, gracious Lord, so to eat the Flesh of thy dear Son Jesus
Christ, and to drink his Blood, that we may evermore dwell in him, and
he in us.

Facing the people, and showing them the host and chalice, the celebrant
says the following invitation:


The Gifts of God for the People of God.

Behold the Lamb of God, who takest away the sins of the world.

R. Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldst come under my roof, but
speak the word only, and my soul shall be healed.

The Bread and Cup are given to the communicants with these words:

The Body (Blood) of our Lord Jesus Christ keep you in everlasting life.
Amen.

Or with these words:

The Body of Christ, the bread of heaven. Amen.

The Blood of Christ, the cup of salvation. Amen.

During the ministration of communion, hymns, songs, or anthems may be
sung.

After communion, the celebrant says

Let us pray.


The people may join in saying this prayer(a proper post-communion
prayer is sometimes said in its place):

Almighty and everliving God, we most heartily thank thee for that thou
dost feed us, in these holy mysteries, with the spiritual food of the
most precious Body and Blood of thy Son our Savior Jesus Christ: and
dost assure us thereby of thy favor and goodness towards us; and that
we are very members incorporate in the mystical body of thy Son, the
blessed company of all faithful people; and are also heirs, through
hope, of thy everlasting kingdom. And we humbly beseech thee, O
heavenly Father, so to assist us with thy grace, that we may continue
in that holy fellowship, and do all such good works as thou hast
prepared for us to walk in; through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom,
with thee and the Holy Ghost, be all honor and glory, world without
end. Amen.

The bishop, when present, or the priest, gives the blessing, fist
saying:

The Lord be with you.

R. And with thy spirit.

The peace of God, which passeth all understanding, keep your hearts and
minds in the knowledge and love of God, and of his Son Jesus Christ our
Lord; and the +blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the
Holy Ghost, be amongst you, and remain with you always.

R. Amen.

Or this:

The +blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the Holy
Spirit, be upon you and remain with you for ever.

R. Amen.

The Deacon, or the celebrant, may dismiss the people with these words:

Let us go forth in the name of Christ.

Thanks be to God.

Or the following:

Go in peace to love and serve the Lord.

Thanks be to God.

Or:

The Mass is ended, depart in peace.

Thanks be to God.

In Eastertide:

The Mass is ended, depart in peace, alleluia, alleluia.

Thanks be to God.
__________________________________________________________________

Home

Liturgy Archive

Liturgical Year

Daily Devotionals

Prayers

Bibles & Reference

The
Saints

Other Reading


shopify site analytics

References

1. http://www.liturgies.net/index.htm
2. http://www.liturgies.net/Liturgies/LiturgyArchive.htm
3. http://www.liturgies.net/LiturgicalYear.htm
4. http://www.liturgies.net/DailyDevotional/DailyDevotional.htm
5. http://www.liturgies.net/Prayers/Prayers.htm
6. http://www.liturgies.net/Bibles/BiblesReference.htm
7. http://www.liturgies.net/saints/saints.htm
8. http://www.liturgies.net/OtherReading/OtherReading.htm
9. http://statcounter.com/shopify/
