The Divine Liturgy of the Holy Apostle and Evangelist Mark

The Disciple of the Holy Peter.


Priest:
Peace be to all.

People:
And to thy spirit.

Deacon:
Pray.

People:
Lord, have mercy; Lord, have mercy; Lord, have mercy.

The Priest prays secretly:
We give Thee thanks, yea, more than thanks, O Lord our God, the Father
of our Lord and God and Saviour Jesus Christ, for all Thy goodness at
all times and in all places, because Thou hast shielded, rescued,
helped, and guided us all the days of our lives, and brought us unto
this hour, permitting us gain to stand before Thee in Thy holy place,
that we may implore forgiveness of our sins and propitiation to all Thy
people. We pray and beseech Thee, merciful God, to grant in Thy
goodness that we may spend this holy day and all the time of our lives
without sin, in fulness of joy, health, safety, holiness, and reverence
of Thee. But all envy, all fear, all temptation, all the influence of
Satan, all the snares of wicked men, do Thou, O Lord, drive away from
us, and from Thy Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church. Bestow upon us, O
Lord, what is good and meet. Whatever sin we commit in thought, word,
or deed, do Thou in Thy goodness and mercy be pleased to pardon. Leave
us not, O Lord, while we hope in Thee; nor lead us into temptation, but
deliver us from the evil one and from his works, through the grace,
mercy, and love of Thine only-begotten Son.

In a loud voice.
Through whom and with whom be glory and power to Thee, in Thy most
holy, good, and life-giving Spirit, now, henceforth, and for evermore.

People:
Amen.

Priest:
Peace be to all.

People:
And to thy spirit.

Deacon:
Pray for the king.

People:
Lord, have mercy; Lord, have mercy; Lord, have mercy.

Priest:
O God, Sovereign Lord, the Father of our Lord and God and Saviour Jesus
Christ, we pray and beseech Thee to grant that our king may enjoy
peace, and be just and brave. Subdue under him, O God, all his
adversaries and enemies. Gird on thy shield and armour, and rise to his
aid. Give him the victory, O God, that his heart may be set on peace
and the praise of Thy holy name, that we too in his peaceful reign may
spend a calm and tranquil life in all reverence and godly fear, through
the grace, mercy, and love of Thine only-begotten Son:

In a loud voice.
Through whom and with whom be glory and power to Thee, with Thy most
holy, good, and life-giving Spirit, now, henceforth, and for evermore.

People:
Amen.

Priest:
Peace be to all.

People
: And to thy spirit.

Deacon
: Pray for the papas and the bishop.

People
: Lord, have mercy; Lord, have mercy; Lord, have mercy.

Priest
: O Sovereign and Almighty God, the Father of our Lord, God, and
Saviour Jesus Christ, we pray and beseech Thee to defend in Thy good
mercy our most holy and blessed high priest our Father in GodD, and our
most reverend BishopD. Preserve them for us through many years in
peace, while they according to Thy holy and blessed will fulfil the
sacred priesthood committed to their care, and dispense aright the word
of truth; with all the orthodox bishops, elders, deacons, sub-deacons,
readers, singers, and laity, with the entire body of the Holy and only
Catholic Church. Graciously bestow upon them peace, health, and
salvation. The prayers they offer up for us, and we for them, do Thou,
O Lord, receive at Thy holy, heavenly, and reasonable altar. But all
the enemies of Thy Holy Church put Thou speedily under their feet,
through the grace, mercy, and love of Thine only-begotten Son:

Aloud
. Through whom and with whom be glory and power to Thee, with Thy
all-holy, good, and life-giving Spirit, now, henceforth, and for
evermore.

People
: Amen.

Priest
:  Peace be to all.

People
: And to thy spirit.

Deacon
: Stand and pray.

People
: Lord have mercy (thrice).

The Priest offers up the prayer of entrance, and for incense:

Priest
: O Sovereign Lord our God, who hast chosen the lamp of the twelve
apostles with its twelve lights, and hast sent them forth to proclaim
throughout the whole world and teach the Gospel of Thy kingdom, and to
heal sickness and every weakness among the people, and hast breathed
upon their faces and said unto them, Receive the Holy Spirit the
Comforter: whosesoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and
whosesoever sins ye retain, they are retained: Breathe also Thy Holy
Spirit upon us Thy servants, who, standing around, are about to enter
on Thy holy service, upon the bishops, elders, deacons, readers,
singers, and laity, with the entire body of the Holy Catholic and
Apostolic Church.From the curse and execration, from condemnation,
imprisonment, and banishment, and from the portion of the adversary;

O Lord, deliver us.

Purify our lives and cleanse our hearts from all pollution and from all
wickedness, that with pure heart and conscience we may offer to Thee
this incense for a sweet-smelling savour, and for the remission of our
sins and the sins of all Thy people, through the grace, mercy, and love
of Thine only-begotten Son:

Aloud.
Through whom and with whom be the glory and the power to Thee, with Thy
all-holy, good, and life-giving Spirit, now, henceforth, and for
evermore.

People
: Amen.

Deacon
: Stand.

They sing:
Only-begotten Son and Word, etc.

The Gospel is carried in, and the Deacon says:
Let us pray.

Priest
: Peace be to all.

People
: And to thy spirit.

Deacon
: Let us pray.

People
: Lord, have mercy.

The Priest says the prayer of the Trisagion:
O Sovereign Lord Christ Jesus, the co-eternal Word of the eternal
Father, who wast made in all things like as we are, but without sin,
for the salvation of our race; who hast sent forth Thy holy disciples
and apostles to proclaim and teach the Gospel of Thy kingdom, and to
heal all disease, all sickness among Thy people, be pleased now, O
Lord, to send forth Thy light and Thy truth. Enlighten the eyes of our
minds, that we may understand Thy divine oracles. Fit us to become
hearers, and not only hearers, but doers of Thy word, that we, becoming
fruitful, and yielding good fruit from thirty to an hundred fold, may
be deemed worthy of the kingdom of heaven.

Aloud
. Let Thy mercy speedily overtake us, O Lord. For Thou art the bringer
of good tidings, the Saviour and Guardian of our souls and bodies and
we offer glory, thanks, and the Trisagion to Thee, the Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost, now, henceforth, and for evermore.

People
: Amen. Holy God, holy mighty, holy immortal. Holy, holy, holy, etc.

After the Trisagion the Priest makes the sign of the cross over the
people, and says:
Peace be to all.

People
: And to thy spirit.

Then follow the Let us attend; The Apostle and Prologue of the
Hallelujah.

The Deacons, after a prescribed form, say:
Lord, bless us.

Priest
: May the Lord in His mercy bless and help us, now, henceforth, and for
evermore.

The Priest before the Gospel is read, offers incense, and says:
Accept at Thy holy, heavenly, and reasonable altar, O Lord, the incense
we offer in presence of Thy sacred glory. Send down upon us in return
the grace of Thy Holy Spirit, for Thou art blessed, and let Thy glory
encircle us.

The Deacon when he is about to read the Gospel:
Lord, bless us.

Priest:
May the Lord, who is the blessed God, bless and strengthen us, and make
us hearers of His holy Gospel, now, henceforth, and for evermore. Amen.

Deacon:
Stand and let us hear the holy Gospel.

Priest:
Peace be to all.

People:
And to thy spirit..

Deacon:
reads the Gospel, and the Priest says the prayer of the Collect.

Look down in mercy and compassion, O Lord, and heal the sick among Thy
people.May all our brethren who have gone or who are about to go
abroad, safely reach their destination in due season.Send down the
gracious rain upon the thirsty lands, and make the rivers flow in full
stream, according to Thy grace.The fruits of the land do Thou, O Lord,
fill with seed and make ripe for the harvest.In peace, courage,
justice, and tranquillity preserve the kingdom of Thy servant, whom
Thou hast deemed worthy to reign over this land.From evil days, from
famine and pestilence, from the assault of barbarians, defend, O Lord,
this Christ-loving city, lowly and worthy of Thy compassion, as Thou
didst spare Nineveh of old.For Thou art full of mercy and compassion,
and rememberest not the iniquities of men against them.Thou hast said
through Thy prophet Isaiah,-I will defend this city, to save it for
mine own sake, and for my servant David's sake.Wherefore we pray and
beseech Thee to defend in Thy good mercy this city, for the sake of the
martyr and evangelist Mark, who has shown us the way of salvation
through the grace, mercy, and love of Thine only-begotten Son.
(Aloud.)Through whom and with whom be glory and power to Thee, with Thy
all-holy, good, and life-giving Spirit.

Deacon:
Begin.

Then they say the verse.

The Deacon says:
The three.

Priest:
O Sovereign and Almighty God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we
pray and beseech Thee to fill our hearts with the peace of heaven, and
to bestow moreover the peace of this life. Preserve for us through many
years our most holy and blessed Papas , and our most pious Bishop,
while they, according to Thy holy and blessed will, peacefully fulfil
the holy priesthood committed to their care, and dispense aright the
word of truth, with all the orthodox bishops, elders, deacons,
sub-deacons, readers, singers, with the entire body of the holy
Catholic and Apostolic Church. Bless our meetings, O Lord. Grant that
we may hold them without let or hindrance, according to Thy holy will.
Be pleased to give to us, and Thy servants after us for ever, houses of
praise and prayer. Rise, O Lord, and let Thine enemies be scattered.
Let all who hate Thy holy name be put to flight. Bless Thy faithful and
orthodox people. Multiply them by thousands and tens of thousands.Let
no deadly sin prevail against them, or against Thy holy people, through
the grace, mercy, and love of Thine only-begotten Son.

Aloud.
Through whom and with whom be glory and power to Thee, with Thy
all-holy, good, and life-giving Spirit.

People:
Amen.

Priest:
Peace be to all.

People:
And to thy spirit.

Deacon:
Take care that none of the catechumens, etc.

Then they sing the Cherubic hymn.

The Priest offers incense at the entrance, and prays:
O Lord our God, who lackest nothing, accept this incense offered by an
unworthy hand, and deem us all worthy of Thy blessing, for Thou art our
sanctification, and we ascribe glory to Thee.

The holy things are carried to the altar, and the Priest prays thus:
O holy, highest, awe-inspiring God, who dwellest among the saints,
sanctify us, and deem us worthy of Thy reverend priesthood. Bring us to
Thy precious altar with a good conscience, and cleanse our hearts from
all pollution. Drive away from us all unholy thoughts, and sanctify our
souls and minds. Grant that, with reverence of Thee, we may perform the
service of our holy fathers, and propitiate Thy presence through all
time; for Thou art He who blesseth and sanctifieth all things, and to
Thee we ascribe glory and thanks.

Deacon:
Salute one another.

The Priest says the prayer of salutation:
O Sovereign and Almighty Lord, look down from heaven on Thy Church, on
all Thy people, and on all Thy flock. Save us all, Thy unworthy
servants, the sheep of Thy fold. Give us Thy peace, Thy help, and Thy
love, and send to us the gift of Thy Holy Spirit, that with a pure
heart and a good conscience we may salute one another with an holy
kiss, without hypocrisy, and with no hostile purpose, but guileless and
pure in one spirit, in the bond of peace and love, one body and one
spirit, in one faith, even as we have been called in one hope of our
calling, that we may all meet in the divine and boundless love, in
Christ Jesus our Lord, with whom Thou art blessed.

Then the Priest offers the incense, and says:
The incense is offered to Thy name. Let it ascend, we implore Thee,
from the hands of Thy poor and sinful servants to Thy heavenly altar
for a sweet-smelling savour, and the propitiation of all Thy people.
For all glory, honour, adoration, and thanks are due unto Thee, the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, now, henceforth, and for evermore. Amen.

After the Salutation, the Deacon in a loud voice says:
Stand and make the offering duly.

The Priest making the sign of the cross over the disks and chalices,
says in a loud voice the Nicene Creed
: I believe in one God, etc.

Deacon:
Stand for prayer.

Priest:
Peace be to all.

Deacon:
Pray for those who present the offering.

The Priest says the prayer of the Oblation.

O Sovereign Lord, Christ Jesus the Word, who art equal in power with
the Father and the Holy Spirit, the great high priest; the bread that
came down from heaven, and saved our souls from ruin; who gavest
Thyself, a spotless Lamb, for the life of the world....

We pray and beseech Thee, O Lord, in Thy mercy, to let Thy presence
rest upon this bread and these chalices on the all-holy table, while
angels, archangels, and Thy holy priests stand round and minister for
Thy glory and the renewing of our souls, through the grace, mercy, and
love of Thine only-begotten Son, through whom and with whom be glory
and power to Thee.

People:
And from the Holy Spirit was He made flesh;

The Priest makes the sign of the cross.

Priest:
And was crucified for us.

The Priest makes the sign of the cross again, and says:
And to the Holy Spirit.

In like manner also, as after the Creed, he makes the sign of the cross
upon the People, and says aloud
: The Lord be with all.

People:
And with thy spirit.

Priest:
Let us lift up our hearts.

People:
We lift them up to the Lord.

Priest:
Let us give thanks to the Lord.

People:
It is meet and right.

The Priest begins the Anaphoral prayer:
O Lord God, Sovereign and Almighty Father, truly it is meet and right,
holy and becoming, and good for our souls, to praise, bless, and thank
Thee; to make open confession to Thee by day and night with voice,
lips, and heart without ceasing;

To Thee who hast made the heaven, and all that is therein; the earth,
and all that is therein; The sea, fountains, rivers, lakes, and all
that is therein;

To Thee who, after Thine own image and likeness, hast made man, upon
whom Thou didst also bestow the joys of Paradise;

And when he trespassed against Thee, Thou didst neither neglect nor
forsake him, good Lord,

But didst recall him by Thy law, instruct him by Thy prophets, restore
and renew him by this awful, life-giving, and heavenly mystery.

And all this Thou hast done by Thy Wisdom and the Light of truth, Thine
only-begotten Son, our Lord, God, and Saviour Jesus Christ, Through
whom, thanking Thee with Him and the Holy Spirit,

We offer this reasonable and bloodless sacrifice, which all nations,
from the rising to the setting of the sun, from the north and the
south, present to Thee, O Lord; for great is Thy name among all
peoples, and in all places are incense, sacrifice, and oblation offered
to Thy holy name.

We pray and beseech Thee, O lover of men, O good Lord, remember in Thy
good mercy the Holy and only Catholic and Apostolic Church throughout
the whole world, and all Thy people, and all the sheep of this fold.
Vouchsafe to the hearts of all of us the peace of heaven, but grant us
also the peace of this life.

Guide and direct in all peace the king, army, magistrates, councils,
peoples, and neighbour-hoods, and all our outgoings and incomings.

O King of Peace, grant us Thy peace in unity and love. May we be Thine,
O Lord; for we know no other God but Thee, and name no other name but
Thine. Give life unto the souls of all of us, and let no deadly sin
prevail against us, or against all Thy people.

Look down in mercy and compassion, O Lord, and heal the sick among Thy
people. Deliver them and us, O Lord, from sickness and disease, and
drive away the spirit of weakness.

Raise up those who have been long afflicted, and heal those who are
vexed with unclean spirits.

Have mercy on all who are in prison, or in mines, or on trial, or
condemned, or in exile, or crushed by cruel bondage or tribute. Deliver
them, O Lord, for Thou art our God, who settest the captives free; who
raisest up the downtrodden; who givest hope to the hopeless, and help
to the helpless; who liftest up the fallen; who givest refuge to the
shipwrecked, and vengeance to the oppressed.

Pity, relieve, and restore every Christian soul that is afflicted or
wandering.

But do Thou, O Lord, the physician of our souls and bodies, the
guardian of all flesh, look down, and by Thy saving power heal all the
diseases of soul and body.

Guide and prosper our brethren who have gone or who are about to go
abroad. Whether they travel by land, or river, or lake, by public road,
or in whatever way journeying, bring them everywhere to a safe and
tranquil haven. Be pleased to be with them by land and sea, and restore
them in health and joy to joyful and healthful homes.

Ever defend, O Lord, our journey through this life from trouble and
storm.

Send down rich and copious showers on the dry and thirsty lands.

Gladden and revive the face of the earth, that it may spring forth and
rejoice in the raindrops.

Make the waters of the river flow in full stream.

Gladden and revive the face of the earth with the swelling waters.

Fill all the channels of the streams, and multiply the fruits of the
earth.

Bless, O Lord, the fruits of the earth, and keep them safe and
unharmed. Fill them with seed, and make them ripe for the harvest.

Bless even now, O Lord, Thy yearly crown of blessing for the sake of
the poor of Thy people, the widow, the orphan, and the stranger, and
for the sake of all of us who have our hope in Thee and call upon Thy
holy name; for the eyes of all are upon Thee, and Thou givest them
bread in due season.

O Thou who givest food to all flesh, fill our hearts with joy and
gladness, that at all times, having all sufficiency, we may abound to
every good work in Christ Jesus our Lord.

O King of kings and Lord of lords, defend the kingdom of Thy servant,
our orthodox and Christ-loving sovereign, whom Thou hast deemed worthy
to reign over this land in peace, courage, and justice.

Subdue under him, O Lord, every enemy and adversary, whether at home or
abroad. Gird on Thy shield and armour, and rise to his aid. Draw Thy
sword, and help him to fight against them that persecute him. Shield
him in the day of battle, and grant that the fruit of his loins may sit
upon his throne.

Be kind to him, O Lord, for the sake of Thy Holy and Apostolic Church,
and all Thy Christ-loving people, that we too in his peaceful reign may
live a calm and tranquil life, in all reverence and godliness.

O Lord our God, give peace to the souls of our fathers and brethren who
have fallen asleep in Jesus, remembering our forefathers of old, our
fathers, patriarchs, prophets, apostles, martyrs, confessors, bishops,
and the souls of all the holy and just men who have died in the Lord.

Especially remember those whose memory we this day celebrate, and our
holy father Mark, the apostle and evangelist, who has shown us the way
of salvation.

Deacon:
Lord, bless us.

Priest:
The Lord will bless thee in His grace, now, henceforth, and for
evermore.

The Deacon reads the record of the dead.

The Priest bows and prays:
Give peace, O Sovereign Lord our God, to the souls of all who dwell in
the tabernacles of Thy saints. Graciously bestow upon them in Thy
kingdom Thy promised blessing, which eye hath not seen, and ear hath
not heard, nor has it entered into the heart of man what Thou, O God,
hast prepared for those who love Thy holy name. Give peace to their
souls, and deem them worthy of the kingdom of heaven.

Grant that we may end our lives as Christians, acceptable unto Thee and
without sin, and be pleased to give us part and lot with all Thy
saints.

Accept, O God, by Thy ministering archangels at Thy holy, heavenly, and
reasonable altar in the spacious heavens, the thank-offerings of those
who offer sacrifice and oblation, and of those who desire to offer much
or little, in secret or openly, but have it not to give.

Accept the thank-offerings of those who have presented them this day,
as Thou didst accept the gifts of Thy righteous Abel:

The Priest offers incense, and says:
As Thou didst accept the sacrifice of our father Abraham, the incense
of Zacharias, the alms of Cornelius, and the widow's two mites, accept
also the thank-offerings of these, and give them for the things of time
the things of eternity, and for the things of earth the things of
heaven. Defend, O Lord, our most holy and blessed Papas whom Thou hast
fore-ordained to rule over Thy Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church, and
our most pious BishopD, that they through many years of peace may,
according to Thy holy and blessed will, fulfil the sacred priesthood
committed to their care, and dispense aright the word of truth.

Remember the orthodox bishops everywhere, the elders, deacons,
sub-deacons, readers, singers, monks, virgins, widows, and laity.

Remember, O Lord, the holy city of our God, Jesus Christ; and the
imperial city; and this city of ours, and all cities and all lands, and
the peace and safety of those who dwell therein in the orthodox faith
of Christ.

Be mindful, O Lord, of the return of the back-sliding, and of every
Christian soul that is afflicted and oppressed, and in need of Thy
divine mercy and help.

Be mindful, O Lord, of our brethren in captivity. Grant that they may
find mercy and compassion with those who have led them captive.

Be mindful also of us, O Lord, Thy sinful and unworthy servants, and
blot out our sins in Thy goodness and mercy.

Be mindful also of me, Thy lowly, sinful, and unworthy servant, and in
Thy mercy blot out my sins.Be with us, O Lord, who minister unto Thy
holy name.

Bless our meetings, O Lord.

Utterly uproot idolatry from the world.

Crush under our feet Satan, and all his wicked influence.

Humble now, as at all times, the enemies of Thy Church.

Lay bare their pride.

Speedily show them their weakness.

Bring to naught the wicked plots they contrive against us.

Arise, O Lord, and let Thine enemies be scattered, and let all who hate
Thy holy name be put to flight.

Do Thou bless a thousand times ten thousand Thy faithful and orthodox
people while they do Thy holy will.

Deacon:
Let those who are seated stand.

Priest:
Deliver the captive; rescue the distressed feed the hungry; comfort the
faint-hearted, convert the erring; enlighten the darkened; raise the
fallen; confirm the wavering; heal the sick; and guide them all, good
Lord, into the way of salvation, and into Thy sacred fold. Deliver us
from our iniquities; protect and defend us at all times.

Deacon:
Turn to the east.

Priest:
For Thou art far above all principality, and power, and might, and
dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but in
that which is to come. Round Thee stand ten thousand times ten
thousand, and thousands of thousands of holy angels and hosts of
archangels; and Thy two most honoured creatures, the many-eyed cherubim
and the six-winged seraphim. With twain they cover their faces, and
with twain they cover their feet, and with twain they do fly; and they
cry one to another for ever with the voice of praise, and glorify Thee,
O Lord, singing aloud the triumphal and thrice-holy hymn to Thy great
glory:-

Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of Sabaoth. Heaven and earth are full of Thy
glory.

(Aloud.)
Thou dost ever sanctify all men; but with all who glorify Thee, receive
also, O Sovereign Lord, our sanctification, who with them celebrate Thy
praise, and say:-

People:
Holy, holy, holy Lord.

The Priest makes the sign of the cross over the sacred mysteries:
For truly heaven and earth are full of Thy glory, through the
manifestation of our Lord and God and Saviour Jesus Christ. Fill, O
God, this sacrifice with Thy blessing, through the inspiration of Thy
all-holy Spirit. For the Lord Himself, our God and universal King,
Christ Jesus, reclining at meat the same night on which He delivered
Himself up for our sins and died in the flesh for all, took bread in
His holy, pure, and immaculate hands, and lifting His eyes to His
Father, our God, and the God of all, gave thanks; and when He had
blessed, hallowed, and broken the bread, gave it to His holy and
blessed disciples and apostles, saying:-

(Aloud.)
Take, eat.

Deacon:
Pray earnestly.

Priest (aloud): For this is my body, which is broken for you, and
divided for the remission of sins.

People:
Amen.

Priest:
After the same manner also, when He had supped, He took the cup of wine
mingled with water, and lifting His eyes to Thee, His Father, our God,
and the God of all, gave thanks; and when He had blessed and filled it
with the Holy Spirit, gave it to His holy and blessed disciples and
apostles, saying:-(Aloud.)Drink ye all of it.

Deacon:
Pray earnestly again.

Priest (aloud):
For this is my blood of the new testament which is shed for you and for
many, and distributed among you for the remission of sins.

People:
Amen.

Priest:
This do ye in remembrance of me; for as often as ye eat this bread and
drink this cup, ye do show forth my death and acknowledge my
resurrection and ascension until I come. O Sovereign and Almighty Lord,
King of heaven, while we show forth the death of Thine only-begotten
Son, our Lord, God, and Saviour Jesus Christ, and acknowledge His
blessed resurrection from the dead on the third day, we do also openly
declare His ascension into heaven, and His sitting on the right hand of
Thee, God and Father, and await His second terrible and dreadful
coming, in which He will come to judge righteously the quick and the
dead, and to render to each man according to his works.

O Lord our God, we have placed before Thee what is Thine from Thine own
mercies. We pray and beseech Thee, O good and merciful God, to send
down from Thy holy heaven, from the mansion Thou hast prepared, and
from Thine infinite bosom, the Paraclete Himself, holy, powerful, and
life-giving, the Spirit of truth, who spoke in the law, the apostles,
and prophets; who is everywhere present, and filleth all things, freely
working sanctification. in whom He will with Thy good pleasure; one in
His nature; manifold in His working; the fountain of divine blessing;
of like substance with Thee, and proceeding from Thee; sitting with
Thee on the throne of Thy kingdom, and with Thine only-begotten Son,
our Lord and God and Saviour Jesus Christ. Send down upon us also and
upon this bread and upon these chalices Thy Holy Spirit, that by His
all-powerful and divine influence He may sanctify and consecrate them,
and make this bread the body.

People:
Amen.

Priest:
(aloud).And this cup the blood of the new testament, of the very Lord,
and God, and Saviour, and universal King Christ Jesus.

Deacon:
Deacons, come down.

Priest (aloud):
That to all of us who partake thereof they may tend unto faith,
sobriety, healing, temperance, sanctification, the renewal of soul,
body, and spirit, participation in the blessedness of eternal life and
immortality, the glory of Thy most holy name, and the remission of
sins, that Thy most holy, precious, and glorious name may be praised
and glorified in this as in all things.

People:
As it was and is.

Priest:
. Peace be to all.

Deacon:
Pray.

The Priest prays in secret:
O God of light, Father of life, Author of grace, Creator of worlds,
Founder of knowledge, Giver of wisdom, Treasure of holiness, Teacher of
pure prayers, Benefactor of our souls, who givest to the faint-hearted
who put their trust in Thee those things into which the angels desire
to look: O Sovereign Lord, who hast brought us up from the depths of
darkness to light, who hast given us life from death, who hast
graciously bestowed upon us freedom from slavery, who hast scattered
the darkness of sin within us, through the presence of Thine
only-begotten Son, do Thou now also, through the visitation of Thy
all-holy Spirit, enlighten the eyes of our understanding, that we may
partake without fear of condemnation of this heavenly and immortal
food, and sanctify us wholly in soul, body, and spirit, that with Thy
holy disciples and apostles we may say this prayer to Thee: Our Father
who art in heaven, etc.

(Aloud.)
And grant, O Sovereign Lord, in Thy mercy, that we with freedom of
speech, without fear of condemnation, with pure heart and enlightened
soul, with face that is not ashamed, and with hollowed lips, may
venture to call upon Thee, the holy God who art in heaven, as our
Father, and say:-

People:
Our Father who art in heaven, etc.

Priest: (quietly)
Verily, Lord, Lord, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from
evil; for Thy abundant mercy showeth that we through our great
infirmity are unable to resist it.Grant that we may find a way whereby
we may be able to withstand temptation; for Thou hast given us power to
tread upon serpents, and scorpions, and all the power of the enemy.

(Aloud.)
For Thine is the kingdom and power.

People:
Amen.

Priest:
Peace be to all.

Deacon:
Bow your heads to Jesus.

People:
Thou, Lord.

Priest:
(quietly) O Sovereign and Almighty Lord, who sittest upon the cherubim,
and art glorified by the seraphim; who hast made the heaven out of
waters, and adorned it with choirs of stars; who hast placed an
unbodied host of angels in the highest heavens to sing Thy praise for
ever; before Thee have we bowed our souls and bodies in token of our
bondage. We beseech Thee to repel the dark assaults of sin from our
understanding, and to gladden our minds with the divine radiance of Thy
Holy Spirit, that, filled with the knowledge of Thee, we may worthily
partake of the mercies set before us, the pure body and precious blood
of Thine only-begotten Son, our Lord and God and Saviour Jesus Christ.
Pardon all our sins in Thy abundant and unsearchable goodness, through
the grace, mercy, and love of Thine only-begotten Son:

Aloud
. Through whom and with whom be glory and power to Thee, with the
all-holy, good, and life-giving Spirit.

Priest:
Peace be to all.

Deacon:
With the fear of God.

Priest:
(quietly) O holy, highest, awe-inspiring God, who dwellest among the
saints, sanctify us by the word of Thy grace and by the inspiration of
Thy all-holy Spirit; for Thou hast said, O Lord our God, Be ye holy;
for I am holy. O Word of God, past finding out, consubstantial and
co-eternal with the Father and the Holy Spirit, and sharer of their
sovereignty, accept the pure song which cherubim and seraphim, and the
unworthy lips of Thy sinful and unworthy servant, sing aloud.

People:
Lord, have mercy; Lord, have mercy; Lord, have mercy.

Priest:
(aloud) Holy things for the holy.

People:
One Father holy, one Son holy, one Spirit holy, in the unity of the
Holy Spirit. Amen.

Deacon:
For salvation and help.

The Priest makes the sign of the cross upon the people, and says in a
loud voice:
The Lord be with all.

The Priest breaks the bread, and says:
Praise ye God.

The Priest divides it among those present, and says
: The Lord will bless and help you through His great mercy.

Priest:
Command.

Clergy:
The Holy Spirit commands and sanctifies.

Priest:
Lo, they are sanctified and consecrated.The Clergy.One holy Father,
etc. (thrice).

Priest:
- The Lord be with all.The Clergy.And with thy spirit.

Priest:
The Lord Himself hath blessed it.

The Priest partakes, and prays:
According to Thy loving-kindness, etc.

Or:,
As the hart panteth after the water-brooks, etc.

When he gives the bread to the clergy, he says:
The holy body.

And when he gives the chalice, he says:
The precious blood of our Lord, and God, and Saviour.


After the service is completed, the Deacon says:
Stand for prayer.

Priest:
Peace be to all.

Deacon:
Pray.

The Priest says the prayer of thanksgiving:
O Sovereign Lord our God, we thank Thee that we have partaken of Thy
holy, pure, immortal, and heavenly mysteries, which Thou hast given for
our good, and for the sanctification and salvation of our souls and
bodies. We pray and beseech Thee, 0 Lord, to grant in Thy good mercy,
that by partaking of the holy body and precious blood of Thine
only-begotten Son, we may have faith that is not ashamed, love that is
unfeigned, fulness of holiness, power to eschew evil and keep Thy
commandments, provision for eternal life, and an acceptable defence
before the awful tribunal of Thy Christ:

In a loud voice:
Through whom and with whom be glory and power to Thee, with Thy
all-holy, good, and life-giving Spirit.

The Priest then turns to the people, and says:
O mightiest King, co-eternal with the Father, who by Thy might hast
vanquished hell and trodden death trader foot, who hast bound the
strong man, and by Thy miraculous power and the enlightening radiance
of Thy unspeakable Godhead hast raised Adam from the tomb, send forth
Thy invisible right hand, which is full of blessing, and bless us all.

Pity us, O Lord, and strengthen us by Thy divine power.

Take away from us the sinful and wicked influence of carnal desire.

Let the light shine into our souls, and dispel the surrounding darkness
of sin.

Unite us to the all-blessed assembly that is well-pleasing unto Thee;
for through Thee and with Thee, all praise, honour, power, adoration,
and thanksgiving are due unto the Father and the Holy Spirit, now,
henceforth, and for evermore.

Deacon:
Depart in peace:

People:
In the name of the Lord.

Priest (aloud):
The love of God the Father; the grace of the Son, our Lord Jesus
Christ; the communion and gift of the All-holy Spirit, be with us all,
now, henceforth, and for evermore.

People:
Amen. Blessed be the name of the Lord.

The Priest prays in the sacristy, and says:
O Lord, Thou hast given us sanctification by partaking of the all-holy
body and precious blood of Thine only-begotten Son; give us the grace
and gift of the All-holy Spirit. Enable us to lead blameless lives; and
guide us unto the perfect redemption, and adoption, and the everlasting
joys of the world to come. For Thou art our sanctification, and we
ascribe glory unto Thee, the Father, and the Son, and the All-holy
Spirit, now, henceforth, and for evermore.

People:
Amen.

Priest:
Peace be to all.

People:
And to thy spirit.

The Priest dismisses them, and says:
May God bless, who blesseth and sanctifieth, who defendeth and
preserveth us all through the partaking of His holy mysteries; and who
is blessed for ever. Amen.
__________________________________________________________________

Home

Liturgy Archive

Liturgical Year

Daily Devotionals

Prayers

Bibles & Reference

The
Saints

Other Reading


shopify site analytics

References

1. http://www.liturgies.net/index.htm
2. http://www.liturgies.net/Liturgies/LiturgyArchive.htm
3. http://www.liturgies.net/LiturgicalYear.htm
4. http://www.liturgies.net/DailyDevotional/DailyDevotional.htm
5. http://www.liturgies.net/Prayers/Prayers.htm
6. http://www.liturgies.net/Bibles/BiblesReference.htm
7. http://www.liturgies.net/saints/saints.htm
8. http://www.liturgies.net/OtherReading/OtherReading.htm
9. http://statcounter.com/shopify/
