The Divine Liturgy of St. Gregory is one of the liturgies authorized
for use by the Antiochian Western Rite Vicariate (AWRV). It is based on
the Tridentine Mass as it was celebrated by the Society of Clerks
Secular of St. Basil (SSB), a formerly independent church that formed
the basis of the Antiochian Western Rite Vicariate in 1961. It is also
authorized for use within the Russian Orthodox Church Outside of Russia
(ROCOR). The Liturgy of St. Gregory has also been authorized for use by
and celebrated within the Polish Orthodox Church, the Patriarchate of
Moscow, the Russian Orthodox Church Outside of Russia, and the
Alexandrian Patriarchate.

The Divine Liturgy according to the Rite of Saint Gregory
Antiochian Archdiocese - Western Rite Vicariate

At Solemn Mass, the Introit is sung while the following prayers of
preparation are said.  Note that the Psalm is omitted in Requiem
Masses, and during Passion-tide.

V.  X In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
R.  Amen.
V.  I will go unto the altar of God:
R.  Even unto the God of my joy and gladness.
V.  Ps. 43. Give sentence with me, O God, and defend my cause against
the ungodly people: O deliver me from the deceitful and wicked man.
R.  For thou art the God of my strength; why hast thou put me from
thee: and why go I so heavily, while the enemy oppresseth me?
V.  O send out thy light and thy truth, that they may lead me: and
bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy dwelling.
R.  And that I may go unto the altar of God, even the God of  my joy
and gladness: and upon the harp will I give thanks unto thee, O God, my
God.
V.  Why art thou so heavy, O my soul: and why art thou so disquieted
within me?
R.  O put thy trust in God: for I will yet give him thanks, which is
the help of my countenance, and my God.
V.  Glory be to the Father, and to the Son: and to the Holy Ghost.
R.  As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be: world
without end.  Amen.
V.  I will go unto the altar of God:
R.  Even unto the God of my joy and gladness.
V.  X Our help is in the Name of the Lord:
R.  Who hath made heaven and earth.
V.  I confess to God Almighty...
R.  God Almighty have mercy upon thee, forgive thee thy sins, and bring
thee to everlasting life.
V.  Amen.
R.  I confess to God Almighty, to Blessed Mary Ever-Virgin, to blessed
Michael the Archangel, to blessed John (the) Baptist, to the holy
Apostles Peter and Paul, to all the Saints, and to thee, father, that I
have sinned exceedingly in thought, word and deed, by my fault, by my
own fault, by my own most grievous fault.  Wherefore I beg blessed Mary
Ever-Virgin, blessed Michael the Archangel, blessed John the Baptist,
the holy  Apostles Peter and Paul, all the Saints, and thee, father, to
pray for me to the Lord our God.
V.  God Almighty have mercy upon you, forgive you your sins, and bring
you to everlasting life.
R.  Amen.
V.  X The Almighty and merciful Lord grant unto us pardon, absolution,
and remission of our sins.
R.  Amen.
V.  Wilt thou not turn again and quicken us, O God?
R.  That thy people may rejoice in thee.
V.  O Lord, show thy mercy upon us.
R.  And grant us thy salvation.
V.  O Lord, hear my prayer.
R.  And let my cry come unto thee.
V.  The Lord be with you.
R.  And with thy spirit.
V.  Let us pray...

The Priest ascends to the altar, saying: Take away from us, we be-seech
thee, O Lord, all our iniquities, that we may  enter the holy of holies
with pure minds. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

And kissing the altar, he says:  We beseech thee, O Lord, by the
prayers of thy Saints [whose relics are here], that thou wouldst
vouch-safe to forgive us all our sins.  Amen.

At High Mass incense is set with appropriate prayers, after which the
altar and Priest are censed. But NOTE, that incense is not used during
the Introit at Nuptial Masses or at Masses for the Dead.

Then is sung or said,

Kyrie, eleison
Kyrie, eleison
Kyrie, eleison
Christe, eleison
Christe, eleison
Christe, eleison
Kyrie, eleison
Kyrie, eleison
Kyrie, eleison Lord, have mercy.
Lord, have mercy.
Lord, have mercy.
Christ, have mercy.
Christ, have mercy.
Christ, have mercy.
Lord, have mercy.
Lord, have mercy.
Lord, have mercy.

When appointed, the following hymn is sung or said, all standing, the
priest first intoning,

Glory be to God on high,

And on earth  peace, to men of good  will.  We praise thee,  we bless
thee, we worship thee, we glorify thee, we give thanks to thee for thy
great glory, O Lord God, heavenly King, God the Father Almighty.

O Lord, the only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ; O Lord God, Lamb of God,
Son of the Father, that takest away the sins of the world, have mercy
upon us. Thou that takest away the sins of the world, receive our
prayer. Thou that sittest at the right hand of God the Father, have
mercy upon us.

For thou only art holy; thou only art the Lord; thou only, O Jesus
Christ, with the Holy Ghost, X art most high in the glory of God the
Father.  Amen.

The Celebrant says to the people,

V.  The Lord be with you.
R.  And with thy spirit.
V.  Let us pray.

The Celebrant sings or says the Collect(s) and the People respond:
Amen.

The people sit.  The Epistle appointed is read and the People respond:

R.  Thanks be to God.

The Gradual and Alleluia sentences are sung by the Choir or read by the
Celebrant.  The Deacon or Priest who is to say or sing the Gospel then
says:  Cleanse my heart and my lips, O almighty God, who didst cleanse
the lips of the prophet Isaiah  with a burning coal, and in thy
gracious mercy so purify me that I may worthily proclaim thy holy
Gospel. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

May the Lord be in my [thy] heart and on my [thy] lips, that I may
[thou mayest] worthily attend to his Holy Gospel. Amen.

At High Masses, incense is set with appropriate prayers and the Gospel
is censed after the salutation.

All standing, the Deacon or Priest reads the Gospel, first saying,

V.  The Lord be with you.
R.  And with thy spirit.
V.  The X  continuation (beginning) of the Holy Gospel according
to___________.

The People sign themselves on the forehead, lips, and breast.

R.  Glory be to thee, O Lord.

After the Gospel, the People say,

R.  Praise be to thee, O Christ.

The Sermon may follow here and announcements may be made. On Sundays
and other Major Feasts there follows, all standing,

The Nicene Creed

I believe in one God, the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth,
and of all  things visible and invisible;

And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son of God, begotten of
his Father before all worlds, God of God, Light of Light, very God of
very God, begotten, not made, being of one substance with the Father;
by whom all things were made; who for us men and for our salvation came
down from heaven, (here genuflect) and was incarnate by the Holy Ghost
of the Virgin Mary, and was made man; (rise) and was crucified also for
us under Pontius Pilate; he suffered and was buried; and the third day
he rose again according to the Scriptures, and ascended into heaven,
and sitteth on the right hand of the Father; and he shall come again,
with glory, to judge both the quick and the dead; whose kingdom shall
have no end.

And I believe in the Holy Ghost the Lord, and Giver of Life, who
proceedeth from the Father; who with the Father and the Son together is
worshiped and glorified; who spake by the Prophets. And I believe one
holy Catholic and Apostolic Church; I acknowledge one Baptism for the
remission of sins; and I look for the resurrection of the dead, X and
the life of the world to come.  Amen.

V.  The Lord be with you.
R.  And with thy spirit.
V.  Let us pray.

The Offertory verse is sung by the Choir or said by the Celebrant. A
hymn or anthem may be sung; a collection may be taken. As the priest
prepares and offers bread and wine, he says the following prayers:

Accept, O holy Father, almighty and everlasting God, this unspotted
host which I, unworthy servant, offer unto thee, my living and true
God, for my innumerable sins, offences and negligences, as also for
those here present and for all faithful Christians, both living and
dead, that it may avail me and them unto life everlasting. Amen.

O God, who in creating human nature hast wonderfully dignified it and
still more wonderfully reformed it, grant that by the mystery of this
water and wine, we may become partakers of his divine nature who
deigned to partake of our human nature, thy Son our Lord Jesus Christ,
who liveth and reigneth with thee in the unity of the Holy Spirit, God;
throughout all ages of ages. Amen.

We offer unto thee, O Lord, the chalice of salvation, beseeching thy
mercy, that it may ascend before thy divine majesty as a sweet odor for
our salvation and for that of the whole world. Amen.

Accept us, O Lord, in the spirit of humility and contrition of heart:
and grant that the sacrifice we offer this day in thy sight may be
pleas-ing to thee, O Lord God.

Come, O almighty and eternal God the Sanctifier, bless this sacrifice
prepared for the glory of thy holy Name.

At High Mass, incense is set with the following prayers:  Through the
intercession of Blessed Michael the Archangel standing at the right
hand of the altar of incense, and of all his elect, may the Lord
vouch-safe to blXess this incense, and to receive it for a sweet
smelling savor. Through Christ our Lord. Amen.

The Oblations, altar, Priest, servers, and people are censed while the
Priest says:  May this incense, which thou hast blest, ascend unto
thee, O Lord: and may thy mercy descend upon us. Ps. 141:1-3:  Let my
prayer, O Lord, be set forth in thy sight as the incense: and let the
lifting up of my hands be an evening sacrifice. Set a watch, O Lord,
before my mouth, and keep the door of my lips: O let not mine heart be
inclined to any evil thing, let me not be occupied in ungodly works.

As the Priest gives up the thurible, he says:  The Lord kindle in us
the fire of his love, and the flame of eternal charity. Amen.

The Priest now washes his hands, saying: Ps. 26:6.  I will wash my
hands in innocency, O Lord, and so will I go to thine altar. That I may
show the voice of thanksgiving, and tell of all thy wondrous works.
Lord, I have loved the habitation of thine house, and the place where
thine honor dwelleth. O shut not up my soul with the sinners, nor my
life with the bloodthirsty: in whose hands is wickedness, and their
right hand is full of gifts. But as for me, I will walk innocently: O
deliver me and be merciful unto me. My foot standeth right, I will
praise the Lord in the congregations. Glory be to the Father, and to
the Son, and to the Holy Ghost: As it was in the beginning, is now, and
ever shall be, world without end. Amen.

Receive, O Holy Trinity, this oblation which we make to thee in memory
of the passion, resurrection, and ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ,
and in honor of blessed Mary Ever-Virgin, of blessed John (the)
Baptist, the holy Apostles Peter and Paul, and of all Saints; that it
may be available to their honor and our salvation: and that they may
vouchsafe to intercede for us in heaven, whose memory we celebrate on
earth. Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.

The Celebrant continues,

V.  Pray, brethren, that this my sacrifice and yours may be acceptable
to God the Father Almighty.
R.  May the Lord receive this sacrifice at thy hands, to the praise and
glory of his Name, both to our benefit and that of all his holy Church.

Then he adds the Secret prayer(s).

The Celebrant sings or says,

V.  The Lord be with you.
R.  And with thy spirit.
V.  Lift up your hearts.
R.  We lift them up unto the Lord.
V.  Let us give thanks unto our Lord God.
R.  It is meet and right so to do.

It is very meet, right, just and availing unto salvation, that we
should at all times and in all places give thanks unto thee, O Lord,
holy Father, almighty everlasting God.

Here a Proper Preface is sung or said as appointed.

Through Christ our Lord, by whom the angels praise thy majes-ty, the
Dominions adore thee, the Powers tremble, the Heavens and the heavenly
Host and the blessed Seraphim join with one glad voice in extolling
thee.  To their voices we pray thee, let ours be added, while we say
with humble praise:

Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of hosts.  Heaven and earth are full of thy
glory. Hosanna in the highest.  X Blessed is he that cometh in the Name
of the Lord.  Hosanna in the highest.

The Canon of the Mass

Therefore,  most merciful Father,  we humbly pray and  beseech thee
through Jesus Christ thy Son our Lord, that thou wouldst be pleased to
accept and bless these gifts, these offerings, these holy, spotless
sacrifices, which we offer thee in the first place for thy holy
Catholic Church, that thou wouldst vouchsafe to keep her in peace under
thy protection, to bring her to unity and to guide her throughout the
world: likewise for IGNATIUS our Patriarch, for PHILIP our
Metropolitan, for the Holy Synod of Antioch, for the President of these
United States, and for all Orthodox believers who hold the Catholic and
apostolic faith.

Remember, O Lord, thy servants and all here present whose faith and
devotion are known unto thee, for whom we offer, or who offer to thee
this sacrifice of praise for themselves and those belonging to them,
for the salvation of their souls, for their health and welfare, and who
pay their vows to thee, the eternal, living and true God.  Here
specific intentions may be made.

In communion with, and venerating first the memory of the glorious and
ever-virgin Mary, Mother of our Lord and God Jesus Christ; and also of
thy blessed apostles and martyrs Peter and Paul, Andrew, James, John,
Thomas, James, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Simon and Jude: Linus,
Cletus, Clement, Xystus, Cornelius, Cypian, Laurence, Chrysogonus, John
and Paul, Cosmas and Damian and of all thy saints, through whose
prayers grant that in all things we may be guarded by the help of thy
protection.  Through the same Christ our Lord.  Amen.

We therefore pray thee, O Lord, mercifully to accept this offer-ing of
our service and that of all thy family; to order our days in thy peace,
to deliver us from eternal damnation, and to number us in the flock of
thine elect.  Through Christ our Lord.  Amen.

Which offering, we beseech thee, O God, to bless, consecrate, approve,
make worthy and acceptable in every way, that it may become for us the
Body and Blood of thy most beloved Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord.

Who, the day before he suffered, took bread into his holy and venerable
hands and, with his eyes lifted up to heaven unto thee, God his
almighty Father, giving thanks unto thee, he blessed, brake and gave it
to his disciples, saying:  Take and eat ye all of this, for THIS IS MY
BODY.

The bell rings thrice for the elevation of the Host.

In like manner after he had supped, taking also this excellent chalice
into his holy and venerable hands, again giving thanks unto thee, he
blessed it, and gave it to his disciples saying: Take and drink ye all
of this, for THIS IS THE CUP OF MY BLOOD OF THE NEW AND ETERNAL
TESTAMENT, THE MYSTERY OF FAITH, WHICH SHALL BE SHED FOR YOU AND FOR
MANY UNTO THE REMISSION OF SINS.  As oft as ye shall do these things,
ye shall do them in remembrance of me.

The bell rings thrice for the elevation of the Chalice.

Wherefore, O Lord, we thy servants, as also thy holy people, calling to
mind the blessed Passion of the same Christ, thy Son our Lord, his
Resurrection from the dead and glorious Ascen-sion into heaven, offer
unto thy most excellent majesty of thy gifts bestowed upon us a pure
host, a holy host, a spotless host, the holy bread of eternal life, and
the chalice of everlasting salvation.

Upon which vouchsafe to look with a favorable and serene countenance,
and to accept them as thou wert graciously pleased to accept the gifts
of thy just servant Abel, and the sacrifice of our patriarch Abraham,
and that which thy high priest Melchisedech offered unto thee, a holy
sacrifice, a spot-less victim.

And we beseech thee, O Lord, to send down thy Holy Spirit upon these
offerings, that he would make this bread the pre-cious Body of thy
Christ, and that which is in this Cup the precious Blood of thy Son our
Lord Jesus Christ, transmuting them by thy Holy Spirit.  R. AMEN.
AMEN.  AMEN.

The bell is rung thrice.

We humbly beseech thee, almighty God, to command that these things be
borne by the hands of thy holy angel to thine altar on high, into the
presence of thy divine majesty, that so many of us as shall partake at
this altar of the most sacred Body and Blood of thy Son, may be filled
with all heavenly benediction.  Through the same Christ our Lord.
Amen.

Be mindful also, O Lord, of thy servants who are gone before us with
the sign of faith, and who rest in the sleep of peace.  (Here the
departed are commemorated.)  To them, O Lord, and to all who rest in
Christ, grant we pray thee a place of refresh-ment, light and peace,
through the same Christ our Lord.  Amen.

To us sinners also, thy servants, confiding in the multitude of thy
mercies, grant some lot and partnership with thy holy apos-tles and
martyrs  John, Stephen, Mat-thias, Barnabas, Ignatius, Marcellinus,
Peter, Felicitas, Perpetua, Agatha, Lucia, Agnes, Cecilia, Anastasia
and with all thy saints, into whose company we pray thee of thy mercy
to admit us, not weighing our merits, but pardoning our offences.
Through Christ our Lord, by whom O Lord, thou dost ever create,
sanctify, quicken, bless and bestow upon us all these good things.  For
by him, and with him, and in him is to thee, God the Father almighty,
in the unity of the Holy Spirit, all honor and glory, throughout all
ages of ages.  Amen.

Let us pray.  Instructed by saving precepts and following thy divine
institution, we presume to say:

People and Celebrant:

Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy Name, thy kingdom come,
thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our
daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who
trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us
from evil.

The Priest continues:  Deliver us, we beseech thee, O Lord, from all
evils, past, present, and to come; and at the intercession of the
blessed and glorious Mary, Ever-Virgin Mother of God, of thy blessed
Apos-tles Peter and Paul, Andrew, and all thy Saints, graciously give
peace in our time, that aided by the help of thy loving kindness, we
may both  be ever free from sin and secure from all disquietude.
Through the same our Lord Jesus Christ, who liveth and reigneth with
thee in the unity of the Holy Spirit, ever one God.

The Celebrant breaks the consecrated Bread and then sings or says,
V.  World without end.
R.  Amen.

V.  The peace of the Lord be always with you.
R.  And with thy spirit.

The following is then is sung or said,

O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world, have mercy upon
us. O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world, have mercy
upon us. O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world, grant
us thy peace.

In Masses for the Dead,  in place of "have mercy upon us" is said
"grant them rest", and in place of "grant us thy peace",  is said:
"grant them rest eternal".

The following prayer is said, except in Masses for the Dead:  O Lord
Jesus Christ, who didst say to thine Apostles, peace I leave with you,
my peace I give unto you, regard not our sins, but the faith of thy
Church; and grant her that peace and unity which are agreeable to thy
will.  Who livest and reignest for ever and ever.  Amen.

The Priest continues:  O Lord Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, who
by the will of the Father and the cooperation of the Holy Ghost hast,
by thy death, given life to the world, deliver me, I beseech thee, by
this thy most holy Body and Blood, from all iniquities and from every
evil.  Make me ever obedient to thy commandments, and suffer me not to
be ever separated from thee, who livest and reignest with God the
Father, in the unity of the same Spirit, God, throughout all ages of
ages.  Amen.

Let not the participation of thy Body, O Lord Jesus Christ, which I
albeit unworthy, receive, be to me for judgement and condemnation; but
by thy goodness may it be a safeguard and remedy both to soul and body,
who with God the Father, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, livest and
reignest, God, throughout all ages of ages.  Amen.

At the Priest's Communion, he says:  I will take the bread of heaven
and call upon the Name of the Lord.  (Then thrice) Lord, I am not
worthy: that thou shouldest enter under my roof, but only say the word
and my soul shall be healed. The bell is rung thrice.

As the Priest receives the Body, he says:  May the Body of our Lord
Jesus Christ preserve my soul unto everlasting life.  Amen.  After
which, he says:  What reward shall I give unto the Lord for all the
benefits that he hath done unto me?  I will receive the cup of
salvation and call upon the Name of the Lord.  I will call upon the
Lord, which is worthy to be praised, so shall I be safe from mine
enemies.  He then receives the Precious Blood, saying: May the Blood of
our Lord Jesus Christ preserve my soul unto everlasting life.  Amen.

Facing the people, the Celebrant says  the following Invitation:

X  Behold the Lamb of God; behold him that takest away the sins of the
world.

The Celebrant and People respond three times,

Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof, but only
say the word and my soul shall be healed.

The people say this prayer of preparation before receiving the
Sacrament:

I believe, O Lord, and I confess that thou art truly the Christ, the
Son of the living God, who didst come into the world to save sinners,
of whom I am chief. And I believe that this is truly thine own
immaculate Body, and that this is truly thine own precious Blood.
Wherefore I pray thee, have mercy upon me and forgive my transgressions
both voluntary and involun-tary, of word and of deed, of knowledge and
of ignorance; and make me worthy to partake without condemnation of
thine immaculate Mysteries, unto remission of my sins and unto life
everlasting. Amen.  Of thy Mystic Supper, O Son of God, accept me today
as a communicant: for I will not speak of thy Mystery to thine enemies,
neither will I give thee a kiss as did Judas; but like the thief will I
confess thee: Remember me, O Lord, in thy Kingdom. Not unto judgment
nor unto condemnation be my partaking of thy Holy Mysteries, O Lord,
but unto the healing of soul and body.

The Orthodox Faithful, duly prepared, make their Communions at this
time. The Body and Blood of Christ are administered together with these
words,

May the Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ preserve thy soul unto
everlasting life.

During the ministration of Communion, hymns, Psalms, or anthems may be
sung.

At the ablutions, the Priest says:  What we have partaken with our
mouth, O Lord, may we receive with a pure heart, and of a temporal
gift, may it become to us an eternal remedy.  May thy Body and Blood
which I have received, cleave unto my heart, O Lord; and grant that no
stain of sin may remain in me, having been fed with this pure and holy
Sacrament.  Who livest and reignest in the unity of the Holy Ghost,
God, throughout all ages of ages.  Amen.

The proper Communion sentence is then said or sung.  Then the priest,
turning to the people, says,

V.  The Lord be with you.
R.  And with thy spirit.
V.  Let us pray.

The Celebrant then says the Postcommunion Collect(s). The Deacon, or
the Celebrant, dismisses the people with these words:

V.  The Lord be with you.
R/.  And with thy spirit.

Then, if it is a day upon which the Gloria has been said, he turns to
the people and says:

V.  Ite missa est.
R.  Deo Gratias.

From the Easter Vigil through Low Saturday "Alleluia, alleluia" is
added to the dismissal and response.

At other times is said,

V.  Let us bless the Lord.
R.  Thanks be to God.

Or, at a Requiem,

V.  May they rest in peace.
R.  Amen.

The Priest then says:  Let the obedient performance of my bounden duty
be pleasing unto thee, O Holy Trinity; and grant that this sacri-fice
which I, unworthy that I am, have offered in the sight of thy majesty,
may be acceptable unto thee and may through thy mercy, obtain thy favor
for myself and for all those in whose behalf I have offered it. Who
livest and reignest, God, throughout all ages of ages.  Amen.

The Bishop when present, or the Priest, gives the blessing; but NOTE
that the blessing is not given at a Requiem.

The blessing of God Almighty, the X Father, the Son, and the Holy
Spirit descend upon you, and remain with you always. R. Amen.

The people stand and the priest says,

V.  The Lord be with you.
R.  And with thy spirit.

V.  X  The Beginning of the Holy Gospel according to John.

Or if another Gospel is to be read,  he says:  The Continuation of the
Holy Gospel according to N.

R. Glory be to thee, O Lord.

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God,  and the Word
was God.  The same was in the beginning with God.  All things were made
by him; and without him was not anything made that was made; in him was
life, and the life was the light of men; and the light shineth in
darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not.  There was a man sent
from God, whose name was John.  The same came for a witness, to bear
witness of the light, that all men through him might be-lieve.  He was
not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light.  That was
the true light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew
him not.  He came unto his own, and his own received him not.  But as
many as re-ceived him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God,
even to them that believe on his Name; which were born, not of blood,
nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
(Here genuflect)  And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us; and
we beheld his glory, the glory as of the Only-begotten of the Father,
full of grace and truth.

R. Thanks be to God.
__________________________________________________________________



Home



Liturgy Archive



Liturgical Year



Daily Devotionals



Prayers



Bibles & Reference



The
Saints



Other Reading



Links


shopify site analytics

References

1. http://www.liturgies.net/index.htm
2. http://www.liturgies.net/Liturgies/LiturgyArchive.htm
3. http://www.liturgies.net/LiturgicalYear.htm
4. http://www.liturgies.net/DailyDevotional/DailyDevotional.htm
5. http://www.liturgies.net/Prayers/Prayers.htm
6. http://www.liturgies.net/Bibles/BiblesReference.htm
7. http://www.liturgies.net/saints/saints.htm
8. http://www.liturgies.net/OtherReading/OtherReading.htm
9. http://www.liturgies.net/links.htm
10. http://statcounter.com/shopify/
