Tridentine Mass - Side by Side in Latin and English

Latin

English

BEFORE HIGH MASS

The Asperges






Stand

While the priest sprinkles holy water before solemn Mass on Sundays,
the following is sung:

Aspérges me. Dómine, hyssópo, et mundábor: lavábis me, et super nivem
dealbábor.

Thou shalt sprinkle me, O Lord, with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed;
Thou shalt wash me, and I shall become whiter than snow.

Miserére mei, Deus, secúndum magnam misericórdiam tuam.

Have mercy on me, O God, according to Thy great mercy.

P.Glória Patri, et Fílio, et Spirítui Sancto.

P.Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost.

S.Sicut erat in princípio, et nunc, et semper, et in sæcula sæculórum.
Amen.

S.As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without
end. Amen.

Aspérges me. Dómine, hyssópo, et mundábor: lavábis me, et super nivem
dealbábor.

Thou shalt sprinkle me, O Lord, with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed;
Thou shalt wash me, and I shall become whiter than snow.

At the foot of the altar the priest says:

Osténde nobis, Dómine, misericórdiam tuam.

Show us, O Lord, Thy mercy.

S.Et salutáre tuum da nobis.

S.And grant us Thy salvation.

P.Dómine, exáudi oratiónem meam.

P.O Lord, hear my prayer.

S.Et clamor meus ad te véniat.

S.And let my cry come unto Thee.

P.Dóminus vobíscum.

P.The Lord be with you.

S.Et cum spíritu tuo.

S.And with thy spirit.

P.Orémus.

P. Let us pray.

Exáudi nos, Dómine sancte, Pater omnípotens, ætérne Deus, et míttere
dignéris sanctum Angelum tuum de cælis, qui custódiat, fóveat,
prótegat, vísitet, atque deféndat omnes habitántes in hoc habitáculo.
Per Christum Dóminum nostrum.

Hear us, O holy Lord, almighty
Father, everlasting God, and vouchsafe to send Thy holy Angel from
heaven, to guard, cherish, protect, visit and defend all that are
assembled in this place: Through Christ our Lord.

S.Amen.

S.Amen.

From Easter to Pentecost the Vidi Aquam replaces the Aspérges me.

Vidi aquam egrediéntem de templo, a látere dextro, allelúia: et omnes
ad quos pervénit aqua ista salvi facti sunt et dicent: allelúia,
allelúia.

I saw water flowing from the right side of the temple, alleluia; and
all they to whom that water came were saved, and they shall say,
alleluia, alleluia.

Confitémini Dómino, quóniam bonus: quóniam in sæculum misericórdia
ejus.

Praise the Lord, for He is good; for His mercy endureth forever.

Osténde nobis. . .as above, with Alleluia.

Show us. . .as above, with Alleluia.

Sit while the priest vests for Mass.

The Order of the Mass (Ordo Missae)

MASS OF THE CATECHUMENS

Kneel

The priest, bowing down at the foot of the altar, makes the Sign of the
Cross and says:

In nómine Patris, et Fílii, + et Spíritus Sancti. Amen.

In the Name of the Father, + and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
Amen.

Then joining his hands before his breast, he begins the Anthem:

Introíbo ad altáre Dei.

S.Ad Deum qui lætíficat juventútem meam.

I will go in unto the Altar of God.
S.To God, Who giveth joy to my youth.

In Masses for the Dead and from Passion Sunday till Holy Saturday, the
following psalm is omitted.

Joining his hands, he says

Júdica me, Deus, et discérne causam meam de gente non sancta: ab hómine
iníquo, et dolóso érue me.

Judge me, O God, and distinguish my cause from the nation that is not
holy: deliver me from the unjust and deceitful man.

S.Quia tu es, Deus, fortitúdo mea: quare me repulísti, et quare tristis
incédo, dum afflígit me inimícus?

S.For Thou, O God, art my strength: why hast Thou cast me off? and why
do I go sorrowful whilst the enemy afflicteth me?

P.Emítte lucem tuam, et veritátem tuam: ipsa me deduxérunt, et
aduxérunt in montem sanctum tuum, et in tabernácula tua.

P.Send forth Thy light and Thy truth: they have led me and brought me
unto Thy holy hill, and into Thy tabernacles.

S.Et introíbo ad altáre Dei: ad Deum qui lætíficat juventútem meam.

S.And I will go in unto the Altar of God: unto God, Who giveth joy to
my youth.

P.Confitébor tibi in cíthara, Deus, Deus meus: quare tristis es, ánima
mea, et quare contúrbas me?

P.I will praise Thee upon the harp, O God, my God: why art thou sad, O
my soul? and why dost thou disquiet me?

S.Spera in Deo, quóniam adhuc confitébor illi: salutáre vultus mei, et
Deus meus.

S.Hope thou in God, for I will yet praise Him: Who is the salvation of
my countenance, and my God.

P.Glória Patri, et Fílio, et Spirítui Sancto.

P.Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost.

S.Sicut erat in princípio et nunc, et semper, et in sæcula sæculórum.
Amen.

S.As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without
end. Amen.

P.Introíbo ad altáre Dei.

P.I will go in unto the Altar of God.

S.Ad Deum qui lætíficat juventútem meam.

S.Unto God, Who giveth joy to my youth.

The priest, signing himself with the Sign of the Cross, says:

Adjutórium nostrum + in nómine Dómini.

Our help + is in the Name of the Lord.

S.Qui fecit cælum et terram.

S.Who hath made heaven and earth.

Confiteor

Then, joining his hands, and humbly bowing down, he says the Confiteor:

Confiteor Deo omnipotnti, etc. I confess to Almighty God, etc.
S. Miseretur tui omnpotens Deus, et dimssis pecctis tuis, perdcat te ad
vitam trnam. S. May Almighty God have mercy upon you, forgive you your
sins, and bring you to life everlasting.

The server says the Confiteor:

Confíteor Deo omnipoténti, beátæ Maríæ semper Vírgini, beáto Michaéli
Archángelo, beáto Joanni Baptístæ, sanctis Apóstolis Petro et Paulo,
ómnibus Sanctis, et tibi, Pater: quia peccávi nimis cogitatióne, verbo
et ópere: He strikes his breast three times
mea culpa, mea culpa, mea máxima culpa. Ideo precor beátam Maríam
semper Vírginem, beátum Joánnem Baptístam, sanctos Apóstolos Petrum et
Paulum, omnes Sanctos, et te, Pater, oráre pro me ad Dóminum Deum
nostrum.

I confess to Almighty God, to blessed Mary ever Virgin, to blessed
Michael the Archangel, to blessed John the Baptist, to the holy
Apostles Peter and Paul, to all the Saints, and to you Father, that I
have sinned exceedingly, in thought, word and deed: He strikes his
breast three times through my fault, through my fault, through my most
grievous fault. Therefore I beseech blessed Mary ever Virgin, blessed
John the Baptist, the holy Apostles Peter and Paul, all the Saints, and
you Father, to pray to the Lord our God for me.

S.
Misereátur tui omnípotens Deus, et dimíssis peccátis tuis, perdúcat te
ad vitam ætérnam.
P.Amen.

S. May Almighty God have mercy upon you, forgive you your sins, and
bring you to life everlasting.
P. Amen.

He bows his head and proceeds:

Deus, tu convérsus vivificábis nos.

Thou wilt turn, O God, and bring us to life.

S.Et plebs tua lætábitur in te.

S.And Thy people shall rejoice in Thee.

P.Osténde nobis, Dómine, misericórdiam tuam.

P.Show us, O Lord, Thy mercy.

S.Et salutáre tuum da nobis.

S.And grant us Thy salvation.

P.Dómine, exáudi oratiónem meam.

P.O Lord, hear my prayer.

S.Et clamor meus ad te véniat.

S.And let my cry come unto Thee.

P.Dóminus vobíscum.

P.The Lord be with you.

S.Et cum spíritu tuo.

S.And with thy spirit.

The priest extends and then joins his hands

P.Orémus.

P.Let us pray.

The priest ascends the altar and says silently:

Aufer a nobis, quæsumus, Dómine, iniquitátes nostras: ut ad Sancta
sanctórum puris mereámur méntibus introíre. Per Christum Dóminum
nostrum. Amen.

Take away from us our iniquities, we entreat Thee, O Lord, that with
pure minds we may worthily enter into the Holy of Holies. Through
Christ our Lord. Amen.

Orámus te, Dómine, per mérita Sanctórum tuórum,

We beseech Thee, O Lord, by the merits of Thy Saints, whose relics are
here,

He kisses the Altar in the middle where a saints relics are enclosed

quorum relíquiæ hic sunt, et ómnium Sanctórum: ut indulgére dignéris
ómnia peccáta mea. Amen.

and of all the Saints, that Thou wilt deign to pardon me all my sins.
Amen.

At a high Mass the priest will incense the altar. While blessing the
incense the priest says:

Ab ilio + benedicáris, in cujus honóre cremáberis. Amen.

Be blessed + by Him in whose honour thou art burnt. Amen.

The Introit (proper)

Moving to the right side of the altar the priest makes the sign of the
cross and reads the Introit.

The Kýrie

The priest returns to the middle of the altar and joins his hands.

P.Kýrie, eléison.
S.Kýrie, eléison.
P.Kýrie, eléison.
S.Christe, eléison.
P.Christe, eléison.
S.Christe, eléison.
P.Kýrie, eléison.
S.Kýrie, eléison.
P.Kýrie, eléison.

P.Lord, have mercy.
S.Lord, have mercy.
P.Lord, have mercy.
S.Christ, have mercy.
P.Christ, have mercy.
S.Christ, have mercy.
P.Lord, have mercy.
S.Lord, have mercy.
P.Lord, have mercy.

The Gloria

The Glória is not said during Lent, Advent, Septuagesima and Masses for
the Dead.

Stand at a high Mass

The priest extends his hands and then rejoining them begins the Gloria.
The people may join after the first phrase.

Glória in excélsis Deo,
et in terra pax homínibus bonæ voluntátis.
Laudámus te.
Benedícimus te.
Adorámus te.
Glorificámus te.
Grátias ágimus tibi
propter magnam glóriam tuam.
Dómine Deus, Rex cæléstis,
Deus Pater omnípotens.
Dómine Fili unigénite, Jesu Christe.
Dómine Deus,
Agnus Dei,
Fílius Patris.
Qui tollis peccáta mundi,
miserére nobis.
Qui tollis peccáta mundi,
súscipe deprecatiónem nostram.
Qui sedes ad déxteram Patris,
miserére nobis.
Quóniam tu solus Sanctus.
Tu solus Dóminus.
Tu solus Altíssimus,
Jesu Christe.
Cum Sancto Spíritu,
+ in glória Dei Patris.
Amen. Glory be to God on high,
and on earth peace to men of good will.
We praise Thee.
We bless Thee.
We adore Thee.
We glorify Thee.
We give Thee thanks
for Thy great glory.
O Lord God, heavenly King,
God the Father Almighty.
O Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son.
O Lord God,
Lamb of God,
Son of the Father.
Who takest away the sins of the world,
have mercy on us.
Who takest away the sins of the world,
receive our prayer.
Who sittest at the right of the Father,
have mercy on us.
For Thou only art holy,
Thou only the Lord
Thou only the most high,
O Jesus Christ.
Together with the Holy Ghost,
+ in the glory of God the Father.
Amen.

He kisses the Altar and turning to the people says:

Dóminus vobíscum.

The Lord be with you.

S.Et cum spíritu tuo.

S.And with thy spirit.

The Collect (proper)

The priest turns back to the altar and says:

Orémus.

Let us pray.

At the end of the Collect the server answers:

Amen.

Amen.

Sit

The Epistle (proper)

At the end of the Epistle the server answers:

Deo grátias.

Thanks be to God.

The Gradual (proper)

After the gradual the missal is moved to the left side of the altar
while the priest, bowing at the middle of the altar, says:

Munda cor meum ac lábia mea, omnípotens Deus, qui lábia Isaíæ Prophétæ
cálculo mundásti igníto: ita me tua grata miseratióne dignáre mundáre,
ut sanctum Evangélium tuum digne váleam nuntiáre. Per Christum Dóminum
nostrum. Amen. The following prayer is omitted in Requiem Masses. Jube,
Dómine, benedícere. Dóminus sit in corde meo, et in lábiis meis: ut
digne et competénter annúntiem Evangélium suum. Amen.

Cleanse my heart and my lips, O Almighty God, Who didst cleanse the
lips of the prophet Isaias with a burning coal; through Thy gracious
mercy so purify me that I may worthily proclaim Thy holy Gospel.
Through Christ our Lord. Amen. The following prayer is omitted in
Requiem Masses. Grant, O Lord, Thy blessing. May the Lord be in my
heart and on my lips that I may worthily and fittingly proclaim His
Gospel. Amen.

The Gospel (proper)




Stand

Turning halfway to the people the priest says:

Dóminus vobíscum.

The Lord be with you.

S.Et cum spíritu tuo.

S.And with thy spirit.

While saying:

Sequéntia sancti Evangélii secúndum N.+,

The continuation of the Holy Gospel according to N.+,

The priest signs the Book, and himself on the forehead, mouth and
breast. The server says:

Glória tibi, Dómine.

Glory be to Thee, O Lord.

The Gospel is read. At the end of the Gospel the server says:

Laus tibi, Christe.

Praise be to Thee, O Christ.

The priest kisses the book and says:

Per evangélica dicta, deleántur nostra delícta.

By the words of the Gospel may our sins be blotted out.

Sit

Sermon

The Creed

Stand

The priest returns to the middle of the altar and begins the Credo. The
people may join after the first phrase:

Credo in unum Deum, Patrem omnipoténtem, factórem cæli et terræ,
visibílium ómnium et invisibílium. Et in unum Dóminum Jesum Christum,
Fílium Dei unigénitum. Et ex Patre natum ante ómnia sæcula. Deum de
Deo, lumen de lúmine, Deum verum de Deo vero. Génitum, non factum,
consubstantiálem Patri: per quem ómnia facta sunt. Qui propter nos
hómines et propter nostram salútem descéndit de cælis.

I believe in one God, the Father Almighty Maker of heaven and earth,
and of all things visible and invisible. and in one Lord Jesus Christ,
the Only-begotten Son of God. Born of the Father before all ages. God
of God, Light of Light, true God of true God. Begotten, not made:
consubstantial with the Father; by Whom all things were made. Who for
us men, and for our salvation, came down from heaven.

Kneel

Et incarnátus est de Spíritu Sancto ex María Vírgine: Et homo factus
est.

And was incarnate by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary: and was made
man.

Stand

Crucifíxus étiam pro nobis: sub Póntio Piláto passus, et sepúltus est.
Et resurréxit tértia die, secúndum Scriptúras. Et ascéndit in cælum:
sedet ad déxteram Patris. Et íterum ventúrus est cum glória judicáre
vivos et mórtuos: cujus regni non erit finis. Et in Spíritum Sanctum,
Dóminum et vivificántem: qui ex Patre, Filióque procédit. Qui cum
Patre, et Fílio simul adorátur, et conglorifícatur: qui locútus est per
Prophétas. Et unam, sanctam, cathólicam et apostólicam Ecclésiam.
Confíteor unum baptísma in remissiónem peccatorum. Et expecto
resurrectionem mortuorum, et vitam + ventúri sæculi. Amen.

He was crucified also for us, suffered under Pontius Pilate, and was
buried. And on the third day He rose again according to the Scriptures.
And He ascended into heaven, and sitteth at the right hand of the
Father. And He shall come again with glory to judge the living and the
dead: of Whose kingdom there shall be no end. And in the Holy Ghost,
the Lord and Giver of Life: Who proceedeth from the Father and the Son.
Who together with the Father and the Son is adored and glorified: Who
spoke through the Prophets. And in One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic
Church. I confess one Baptism for the remission of sins. And I look for
the resurrection of the dead, and the life + of the world to come.
Amen.

The priest kisses the Altar, turns to the people and says:

P. Dóminus vobíscum.

P. The Lord be with you.

S. Et cum spíritu tuo.

S. And with your spirit.

P. Orémus.

P. Let us pray.

Sit

MASS OF THE FAITHFUL

Offertory (proper)


At the middle of the altar the priest reads the Offertory verse.

The bells are rung once
.

At Solemn Mass, the Celebrant receives the paten with the host from the
Deacon.

The priest now uncovers the chalice, takes the paten with the host and
raises it saying:

Súscipe, sancte Pater, omnípotens ætérne Deus, hanc immaculátam
hóstiam, quam ego indígnus fámulus tuus óffero tibi Deo meo vivo et
vero, pro innumerabílibus peccátis, et offensiónibus, et negligéntiis
meis, et pro ómnibus circumstántibus, sed et pro ómnibus fidélibus
christiánis vivis atque defúunctis: ut mihi et illis profíciat ad
salútem in vitam ætérnam. Amen.

Accept, O Holy father, Almighty and Eternal God, this spotless host,
which I, Your unworthy servant, offer to You, my living and true God,
to atone for my numberless sins, offences, and negligences; on behalf
of all here present and likewise for all faithful Christians living and
dead, that it may profit me and them as a means of salvation to life
everlasting. Amen.

The Priest makes the Sign of the Cross with the paten and host, and
places the host upon the corporal while saying the following prayer. He
pours wine and water into the chalice, blessing the water before it is
poured, except in Requiem Masses.

At Solemn Mass, the Deacon pours wine into the chalice and the
Subdeacon pours the water which the Celebrant has blessed, except in
Requiem Masses.

Deus, + qui humánæ substántiæ dignitátem mirabíliter condidísti et
mirabílius reformásti: da nobis, per hujus aquæ et vini mystérium, ejus
divinitátis esse consórtes, qui humanitátis nostræ fíeri dignátus est
párticeps, Jesus Christus, Fílius tuus, Dóminus noster: Qui tecum vivit
et regnat in unitáte Spíritus Sancti Deus: per ómnia sæcula sæculórum.
Amen.

O God, + Who in creating man didst exalt his nature very wonderfully
and yet more wonderfully didst establish it anew;; by the Mystery
signified in the mingling of this water and wine, grant us to have part
in the Godhead of Him Who hath deigned to become a partaker of our
humanity, Jesus Christ, Thy Son our Lord; Who liveth and reigneth with
Thee, in the unity of the Holy Ghost, God. World without end. Amen.

Going to the middle of the Altar, the priest takes the chalice and
offers it to God.

Offérimus tibí, Dómine, cálicem salutáris, tuam deprecántes cleméntiam:
ut in conspéctu divínæ majestátis tuæ, pro nostra et totíus mundi
salúte, cum odóre suavitátis ascéndat. Amen.

We offer unto Thee, O Lord, the chalice of salvation, entreating Thy
mercy that our offering may ascend with a sweet fragrance in the sight
of Thy divine Majesty, for our own salvation, and for that of the whole
world. Amen.


Then making the Sign of the Cross with the chalice, and placing it on
the corporal, he covers it with the pall.

At Solemn Mass, the Subdeacon receives the paten from the Deacon and
covering it with the ends of the veil worn over his shoulders, he holds
it before his eyes and takes his place at the foot of the Altar until
the conclusion of the Our Father. (Omitted in Requiem Masses.)

Bowing down, the Priest says:

In spíritu humilitátis, et in ánimo contríto suscipiámur a te, Dómine:
et sic fiat sacrifícium nostrum in conspéctu tuo hódie, ut pláceat
tibi, Dómine Deus.

Humbled in spirit and contrite of heart, may we find favor with Thee, O
Lord: and may our sacrifice be so offered this day in Thy sight as to
be pleasing to Thee, O Lord God.

Raising his eyes and extending his hands, he says:

Veni, Sanctificátor omnípotens ætérne Deus: et bénedic + hoc
sacrifícium, tuo sancto nómini præparátum.

Come Thou, the Sanctifier, Almighty and Everlasting God, and bless +
this sacrifice which is prepared for the glory of Thy holy Name.

When the offerings of bread and wine are to be incensed, as well as the
Altar and all who are present, the Celebrant blesses the incense,
saying:

Per intercessiónem beáti Michaélis Archángeli, stantis a dextris
altáris incénsi, et ómnium electórum suórum, incénsum istud dignétur
Dóminus bene + dícere, et in odórem suavitátis accípere. Per Christum
Dóminum nostrum. Amen.

Through the intercession of Blessed Michael the Archangel, standing at
the right hand of the altar of incense, and of all His elect may the
Lord vouchsafe to bless + this incense and to receive it in the odor of
sweetness. Through Christ our Lord. Amen.

Receiving the thurible, he incenses the bread and wine, saying:

Incénsum istud a te benedíctum, ascéndat ad te, Dómine: et descéndat
super nos misericórdia tua.

May this incense blessed by You, arise before You, O Lord, and may Your
mercy come down upon us.



Incensing the Altar, he says Psalm 140:


Dirigátur, Dómine, orátio mea, sicut incénsum, in conspéctu tuo:
elevátio mánuum meárum sacrifícium vespertínum. Pone, Dómine, custódiam
ori meo, et óstium circumstántiæ lábiis meis: ut non declínet cor meum
in verba malítiæ, ad excusándas excusatiónes in peccátis.


Let my prayer, O Lord, like incense before You; the lifting up of my
hands, like the evening sacrifice. O Lord, set a watch before my mouth,
a guard at the door of my lips. Let not my heart incline to the evil of
engaging in deeds of wickedness.

Giving the thurible to the Deacon (or Server), he says:

Accéndat in nobis Dóminus ignem sui amóris, et flámmam ætérnæ
caritátis. Amen.

May the Lord enkindle in us the fire of His love and the flame of
everlasting charity. Amen.

The Celebrant is incensed, and (except in Requiem Masses) after him,
the Clergy, and then the whole congregation.

Lavabo

The priest then goes to the right side of the Altar and washes his
fingers while saying the following verses of Psalm 25:

Lavábo inter innocéntes manus meas: et circúmdabo altáre tuum, Dómine.
Ut áudiam vocem laudis: et enárrem univérsa mirabília tua. Dómine,
diléxi decórem domus tuæ: et locum habitatiónis glóriæ tuæ. Ne perdas
cum ímpiis, Deus: ánimam meam, et cum viris sánguinum vitam meam. In
quorum mánibus iniquitátes sunt: déxtera eórum repléta est munéribus.

I will wash my hands among the innocent, and I will encompass Thine
Altar, O Lord. That I may hear the voice of praise, and tell of all Thy
wondrous works. I have loved, O Lord, the beauty of Thy house, and the
place where Thy glory dwelleth. Take not away my soul, O God, with the
wicked, nor my life with men of blood. In whose hands are iniquities,
their right hand is filled with gifts.

Ego autem in innocéntia mea ingréssus sum: rédime me, et miserére mei.
Pes meus stetit in dirécto: in ecclésiis benedícam te, Dómine.

But as for me, I have walked in my innocence; redeem me, and have mercy
on me. My foot hath stood in the right way; in the churches I will
bless Thee, O Lord.

In Masses for the Dead, and in Masses during the Season of Passion
Time, the "Glory be" is omitted.

Glória Patri, et Fílio, et Spirítui Sancto. Sicut erat in princípio, et
nunc, et semper, et in sæcula sæculórum. Amen.

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost. As it
was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end.
Amen.

Bowing down at the middle of the Altar with hands joined, the priest
says:

Súscipe, Sancta Trínitas, hanc oblatiónem, quam tibi offérimus ob
memóriam passiónis, resurrectiónis, et ascensiónis Jesu Christi Dómini
nostri, et in honórem beátæ Maríæ semper Vírginis, et beáti Joánnis
Baptístæ, et sanctórum Apostolórum Petri et Pauli, et istórum, et
ómnium Sanctórum: ut illis profíciat ad honórem, nobis autem ad
salútem: et illi pro nobis intercédere dignéntur in cælis, quorum
memóriam ágimus in terris. Per eúndem Christum Dóminum nostrum. Amen.

Receive, O Holy Trinity, this oblation which we make to Thee in memory
of the Passion, Resurrection and Ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ;
and in honor of Blessed Mary ever Virgin, of blessed John the Baptist,
the holy Apostles Peter and Paul, of these and of all the Saints. To
them let it bring honor, and to us salvation, and may they whom we are
commemorating here on earth deign to plead for us in heaven. Through
the same Christ our Lord. Amen.

Orate Fratres

The priest kisses the Altar, and turning to the people says the first
two words audibly , then turns back to the Altar to finish the prayer.

Oráte fratres: ut meum ac vestrum sacrifícium acceptábile fiat apud
Deum Patrem omnipoténtem.

Pray, brethren, that my Sacrifice and yours may be acceptable to God
the Father Almighty.

S. Suscípiat Dóminus sacrifícium de mánibus tuis ad laudem et glóriam
nóminis sui, ad utilitátem quoque nostram, totiúsque Ecclésiæ suæ
sanctæ.

S. May the Lord accept the Sacrifice from thy hands, to the praise and
glory of His Name, for our benefit and for that of all His holy Church.

P. Amen.

P. Amen.

The Secret (proper)

The priest extends his hands and says the Secret silently.

He ends audibly:

Per ómnia sæcula sæculórum.

World without end.

S. Amen.

S. Amen.

Stand

P. Dóminus vobíscum.

P. The Lord be with you.

S. Et cum spíritu tuo.

S. And with thy spirit.

P. Sursum corda.

P. Lift up your hearts.

S. Habémus ad Dóminum.

S. We have lifted them up to the Lord.

P. Grátias agámus Dómino Deo nostro.

P. Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.

S. Dignum et justum est.

S. It is right and just.

Preface
(proper)

The following Preface of the Most Holy Trinity is said on all Sundays
except on Feasts that have a proper Preface, and during Lent,
Paschaltime and Ascension Time.

Vere dignum et justum est, æquum et salutáre, nos tibi semper, et
ubíque grátias ágere: Dómine sancte, Pater omnípotens, ætérne Deus: Qui
cum unigénito Fílio tuo, et Spíritu Sancto, unus es Deus, unus es
Dóminus: non in uníus singularitáte persónæ, sed in uníus Trinitáte
substántiæ. Quod enim de tua glória, revelánte te, crédimus, hoc de
Fílio tuo, hoc de Spíritu Sancto, sine differéntia discretiónis
sentímus. Ut in confessióne veræ sempiternæque Deitátis, et in persónis
propríetas, et in esséntia ùnitas, et in majestáte adorétur æquálitas.
Quam laudant Angeli atque Archángeli, Chérubim quoque ac Séraphim: qui
non cessant clamáre quotídie, una voce dicéntes:

It is truly meet and just, right for our salvation, that we should at
all times and in all places, give thanks unto Thee, O holy Lord, Father
almighty, everlasting God; Who, together with Thine only-begotten Son,
and the Holy Ghost, art one God, one Lord: not in the oneness of a
single Person, but in the Trinity of one substance. For what we believe
by Thy revelation of Thy glory, the same do we believe of Thy Son, the
same of the Holy Ghost, without difference or separation. So that in
confessing the true and everlasting Godhead, distinction in persons,
unity in essence, and equality in majesty may be adored. Which the
Angels and Archangels, the Cherubim also and the Seraphim do praise:
who cease not daily to cry out, with one voice saying:

The bells are rung three times

Kneel

Sanctus

Sanctus, Sanctus, Sanctus, Dóminus Deus Sábaoth. Pleni sunt cæli et
terra glória tua. Hosánna in excélsis. + Benedíctus qui venit in nómine
Dómini. Hosánna in excélsis.

Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of Hosts. Heaven and earth are full of Thy
Glory. Hosanna in the highest. + Blessed is He Who cometh in the Name
of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest.

THE CANON

Prayers Before Consecration

The priest bows over the Altar and says silently:

Te Igitur

For the Church

Te ígitur, clementíssime Pater, per Jesum
Christum Fílium tuum, Dóminum nostrum, súpplices rogámus, ac pétimus,
uti accépta hábeas, et benedícas, hæc + dona, hæc + múnera, hæc +
sancta sacrifícia illibáta, in primis, quæ tibi offérimus pro Ecclésia
tua sancta cathólica: quam pacificáre, custodíre, adunáre, et régere
dignéris toto orbe terrárum: una cum fámulo tuo Papa nostro N . . . et
Antístite nostro N . . . et ómnibus orthodóxis, atque cathólicæ et
apostólicæ fídei cultóribus.

Most merciful Father, we humbly pray and beseech Thee, through Jesus
Christ Thy Son, Our Lord, to accept and to bless these + gifts, these +
presents, these + holy unspotted Sacrifices, which we offer up to Thee,
in the first place, for Thy Holy Catholic Church, that it may please
Thee to grant her peace, to preserve, unite, and govern her throughout
the world; as also for Thy servant N . . . our Pope, and N . . . our
Bishop, and for all orthodox believers and all who profess the Catholic
and Apostolic faith.



Commemoratio pro vivis

For the Living

Meménto, Dómine, famulórum famularúmque tuárum N . . . et N . . . et
ómnium circumstántium, quorum tibi fides cógnita est, et nota devótio,
pro quibus tibi offérimus: vel qui tibi ófferunt hoc sacrifícium
laudis, pro se, suísque ómnibus: pro redemtióne et incolumitátis suæ:
tibíque reddunt vota sua ætérno Deo, vivo et vero.

Be mindful, O Lord, of Thy servants and handmaids N . . . and N . . .
and of all here present, whose faith and devotion are known to Thee,
for whom we offer, or who offer up to Thee this Sacrifice of praise for
themselves and all those dear to them, for the redemption of their
souls and the hope of their safety and salvation: who now pay their
vows to Thee, the everlasting, living and true God.

Communicantes

Invocation of the Saints

Communicántes, et memóriam venerántes, in primis gloriósæ semper
Vírginis Maríæ, Genitrícis Dei et Dómini nostri Jesu Christi: sed et
beáti Joseph ejúsdem Vírginis Sponsi, et beatórum Apostolórum ac
Mártyrum tuórum, Petri et Pauli, André æ, Jacóbi, Joánnis, Thomæ,
Jacóbi, Philíppi, Bartholomæi, Matthæi, Simónis et Thaddæi: Lini,
Cleti, Cleméntis, Xysti, Cornélii, Cypriáni, Lauréntii, Chrysógoni,
Joánnis et Pauli, Cosmæ et Damiáni: et ómnium Sanctórum tuórum; quorum
méritis precibúsque concédas, ut in ómnibus protectiónis tuæ muniámur
auxílio. Per eúndem Christum Dóminum nostrum. Amen.

In communion with, and honoring the memory in the first place of the
glorious ever Virgin Mary Mother of our God and Lord Jesus Christ; also
of blessed Joseph, her Spouse; and likewise of Thy blessed Apostles and
Martyrs, Peter and Paul, Andrew, James, John, Thomas, James, Philip,
Bartholomew, Matthew, Simon and Thaddeus, Linus, Cletus, Clement,
Sixtus, Cornelius, Cyprian, Lawrence, Chrysogonus, John and Paul,
Cosmas and Damian, and of all Thy Saints. Grant for the sake of their
merits and prayers that in all things we may be guarded and helped by
Thy protection. Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.

Prayers at Consecration

Oblation of the Victim to God

The bells are rung once.

The priest spreads his hands over the offering and says:

Hanc ígitur oblatiónem servitútis nostræ, sed et cunctæ famíliæ tuæ,
quæsumus, Dómine, ut placátus accípias: diésque nostros in tua pace
dispónas, atque ab ætérna damnatióne nos éripi, et in electórum tuórum
júbeas grege numerári. Per Christum Dóminum nostrum. Amen.

O Lord, we beseech Thee, graciously to accept this oblation of our
service and that of Thy whole household. Order our days in Thy peace,
and command that we be rescued from eternal damnation and numbered in
the flock of Thine elect. Through Christ our Lord. Amen.

Quam oblatiónem tu, Deus, in ómnibus, Qæsumus, bene+díctam,
adscríp+tam, ra+tam, rationábilem, acceptabilémque fácere dignéris: ut
nobis Cor+pus, et San+guis fiat dilectíssimi Fílii tui Dómini nostri
Jesu Christi.

Humbly we pray Thee, O God, be pleased to make this same offering
wholly blessed +, to consecrate + it and approve + it, making it
reasonable and acceptable, so that it may become for us the Body + and
Blood + of Thy dearly beloved Son, our Lord Jesus Christ.

Consecration of the Host

The priest takes the host in his hands and says:

Qui prídie quam paterétur, accépit panem in sanctus ac venerábiles
manus suas, et elevátis óculis in cælum ad te Deum Patrem suum
omnipoténtem, tibi grátias agens, bene+díxit, fregit, dedítque
discípulis suis, dicens: Accípite, et manducáte ex hoc omnes:

Who, the day before He suffered , took bread into His Holy and
venerable hands, and having lifted up His eyes to heaven, to Thee, God,
His Almighty Father, giving thanks to Thee, blessed it +, broke it, and
gave it to His disciples, saying: Take and eat ye all of this:

The priest bows low and says:

Hoc est enim Corpus Meum.

For this is My Body.

The priest genuflects while the bells are rung once. Then he rises,
elevates the Host and the bells are rung three times. Putting the Host
on the corporal he genuflects again while the bells are rung once. He
then uncovers the chalice and says:

Símili modo postquam coenátum est,

In like manner, after He had supped,

The priest takes the chalice in both hands and continues:

accípiens et hunc præclárum Cálicem in sanctas ac venerábiles manus
suas: item tibi grátias agens, bene+díxit, dedítque discípulis suis,
dicens: Accípite, et bíbite ex eo omnes:

Taking also into His holy and venerable hands this goodly chalice,
again giving thanks to Thee, He blessed it +, and gave it to His
disciples, saying: Take and drink ye all of this:

The priest bends over the chalice and says:

Hic est enim Calix Sánguinis Mei, novi et ætérni testaménti: Mystérium
Fídei: qui pro vobis et pro multis effundétur in remissiónem
peccatórum.

For this is the Chalice of My Blood, of the new and eternal testament:
the Mystery of Faith: which shall be shed for you and for many unto the
remission of sins.

Hæc quotiescúmque fecéritis, in mei memóriam faciétis.

As often as ye shall do these things, ye shall do them in remembrance
of me.

The priest genuflects while the bells are rung once. Then he rises,
elevates the chalice and the bells are rung three times. After putting
the chalice on the corporal and covering it, he genuflects again while
the bells are rung once.

Prayers after Consecration

Unde et memores

To Offer the Victim

With hands extended the priest continues silently

Unde et mémores, Dómine, nos servi tui, sed et plebs tua sancta,
ejústdem Christi Fílii tui Dómini nostri tam beátæ passiónis necnon et
ab ínferis resurrectiónis, sed et in cælos gloriósæ ascensiónis:
offérimus præcláræ majestáti tuæ de tuis donis, ac datis,

And now, O Lord, we, Thy servants, and with us all Thy holy people,
calling to mind the blessed Passion of this same Christ, Thy Son, our
Lord, likewise His Resurrection from the grave, and also His glorious
Ascension into heaven, do offer unto Thy most sovereign Majesty out of
the gifts Thou hast bestowed upon us,

Bringing his hands together, the priest makes the Sign of the Cross
five times.

Hóstiam + puram, hóstiam + sanctam, hóstiam + immaculátem, Panem +
sanctum vitæ ætérnæ, et Cálicem + salútis perpétuæ.

a Victim + which is pure, a Victim + which is holy, a Victim + which
is spotless, the holy Bread + of life eternal, and the Chalice + of
everlasting Salvation.

Supra quae

To Ask God to Accept Our Offering

The priest extends his hands and continues:

Supra quæ propítio ac seréno vultu respícere dignéris: et accépta
habére, sícuti accépta habére dignátus es múnera púeri tui justi Abel,
et sacrifícium Patriárchæ nostri Abrahæ: et quod tibi óbtulit summus
sacérdos tuus Melchísedech, sanctum sacrifícium, immaculátam hóstiam.

Deign to look upon them with a favorable and gracious countenance, and
to accept them as Thou didst accept the offerings of Thy just servant
Abel, and the sacrifice of our Patriarch Abraham, and that which Thy
high priest Melchisedech offered up to Thee, a holy Sacrifice, an
immaculate Victim.

Supplices te rogamus

For Blessings

The priest bows over the Altar and joins his hands saying:

Súpplices te rogámus, omnípotens Deus: jube hæc perférri per manus
sancti Angeli tui in sublíme altáre tuum, in conspéctu divínæ
majestátis tuæ: ut quotquot ex hac altáris participatióne sacrosánctum
Fíii tui, Cor+pus, et Sán+guinem sumpsérimus, omni benedictióne cælésti
et grátia repleámur. Per eúndem Christum Dóminum nostrum. Amen.

Humbly we beseech Thee, almighty God, to command that these our
offerings be carried by the hands of Thy holy Angel to Thine Altar on
high, in the sight of Thy divine Majesty, so that those of us who shall
receive the most sacred Body + and Blood + of Thy Son by partaking
thereof from this Altar may be filled with every grace and heavenly
blessing: Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.

Commemoratio pro defunctis

For the Dead

Meménto étiam, Dómine, famulórum famularúmque tuárum N . . . et N . . .
qui nos præcessérunt cum signo fídei, et dórmiunt in somno pacis.
Ipsis, Dómine, et ómnnibus in Christo quiescéntibus, locum refrigérii,
lucis et pacis, ut indúlgeas, deprecámur. Per eúndem Christum Dóminum
nostrum. Amen.

Be mindful, also, O Lord, of Thy servants and handmaids N . . . and N .
. . who are gone before us with the sign of faith and who sleep the
sleep of peace. To these, O Lord, and to all who rest in Christ, grant,
we beseech Thee, a place of refreshment, light and peace. Through the
same Christ our Lord. Amen.

Nobis quoque peccatoribus

For Eternal Happiness

The priest strikes his breast, says the first three words aloud, and
then continues silently:

Nobis quoque peccatóribus fámulis tuis, de multitúdine miseratiónum
tuárum sperántibus, partem áliquam, et societátem donáre dignéris, cum
tuis sanctis Apóstolis et Martýribus: cum Joánne, Stéphano, Matthía,
Bárnaba, Ignátio, Alexándro, Marcellíno, Petro, Felicitáte, Perpétua,
Agatha, Lúcia, Agnéte, Cæcília, Anastásia, et ómnibus Sanctis tuis:
intra quorum nos consórtium, non æstimátor mériti, sed véniæ, quæsumus,
largítor admítte. Per Christum Dóminum nostrum.

To us also Thy sinful servants, who put our trust in the multitude of
Thy mercies, vouchsafe to grant some part and fellowship with Thy holy
Apostles and Martyrs: with John, Stephen, Matthias, Barnabas, Ignatius,
Alexander, Marcellinus, Peter, Felicitas, Perpetua, Agatha, Lucy,
Agnes, Cecilia, Anastasia, and all Thy Saints. Into their company we
beseech Thee admit us, not considering our merits, but freely pardoning
our offenses. Through Christ our Lord.

Final Doxology & Minor Elevation

Per quem hæc ómnia, Dómine, semper bona creas, sanctí+ficas,
viví+ficas, bene+dícas, et præstas nobis.

By whom, O Lord, Thou dost always create, sanctify +, quicken +, bless
+, and bestow upon us all these good things.

The priest uncovers the chalice and genuflects. Holding the Host in his
right hand and the chalice in his left, he makes the Sign of the Cross
five times over the chalice, saying:

Per ip+sum, et cum ip+so, et in ip+so, est tibi Deo Patri +
omnipoténti, in unitáte Spíritus + Sancti, onis honor, et glória.

Through Him +, and with Him +, and in Him +, is unto Thee, God the
Father + Almighty, in the unity of the Holy + Ghost, all honor and
glory.

He puts the Host down, covers the chalice, genuflects, and then says
aloud:

Per ómnia sæcula sæculórum.

World without end.

S. Amen.

S. Amen.

Holy Communion

Our Father

Stand at a high Mass.

The priest joins his hands and says:

Orémus.

Let us pray.

Præcéptis salutáribus móniti, et divína institutióne formáti, audémus
dícere:

Admonished by Thy saving precepts and following Thy divine instruction,
we make bold to say:

He extends his hands and looking at the Sacrament, says aloud:

Pater noster, qui es in cælis: Sanctificétur nomen tuum: Advéniat
regnum tuum: Fiat volúntas tua, sicut in cælo, et in terra. Panem
nostrum quotidiánum da nobis hódie: Et dimítte nobis débita nostra,
sicut et nos dimíttimus debitóribus nostris. Et ne nos indúcas in
tentatiónem.

Our Father, Who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy Name; Thy kingdom come;
Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our
daily bread; and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who
trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation.

S. Sed líbera nos a malo.

S. But deliver us from evil.

P. Amen.

P. Amen.

Libera Nos

The priest takes the paten between his first and second fingers,
saying:

Líbera nos, quæsumus, Dómine, ab ómnibus malis, prætéritis,
præséntibus, et futúris: et intercedénte beáta et gloriósa semper
Vírgine Dei Genitríce María, cum beátis Apóstolis tuis Petro et Paulo,
atque Andréa, et ómnibus anctis, + da propítius pacem in diébus
nostris: ut ope misericórdiæ tuæ adjúti, et a peccáto simus semper
líberi, et ab omni perturbatióne secúri.

Deliver us, we beseech Thee, O Lord, from all evils, past, present and
to come, and by the intercession of the Blessed and glorious ever
Virgin Mary, Mother of God, together with Thy blessed apostles Peter
and Paul, and Andrew, and all the Saints, + mercifully grant peace in
our days, that through the bounteous help of Thy mercy we may be always
free from sin, and safe from all disquiet.

He uncovers the chalice, genuflects, takes the Host and breaking it
down the middle over the chalice says:

Per eúndem Dóminum nostrum Jesum Christum Fílium tuum,

Through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son our Lord,

He breaks off a Particle from the Host.

Qui tecum vivit et regnat in unitáte Spíritus Sancti Deus,

Who is God living and reigning with Thee in the unity of the Holy
Ghost,

P. Per ómni sæcula sæculorum.

P. World without end.

S. Amen.

S. Amen.

He makes the Sign of the Cross over the chalice, saying:

P.
Pax+Dómini sit + semper vobís +cum.

P. May the peace + of the Lord be +always +with you.

S. Et cum spíritu tuo.

S.
And with thy spirit.

He places the Particle in the chalice and says quietly:

Hæc commíxtio et consecrátio Córprois et Sánguinis Dómini nostri Jesu
Christi, fiat accipiéntibus nobis in vitam ætérnam. Amen May this
mingling and hallowing of the Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ
be for us who receive it a source of eternal life. Amen.

The priest covers the chalice, genuflects, and then bowing strikes his
breast three times, saying aloud:

Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi: miserere nobis.

Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi: miserere nobis.

Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi: dona nobis pacem.
Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, have mercy on us.
Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, have mercy on us.
Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, grant us peace.

Prayers for Holy Communion

Prayer for Peace and Fidelity

He continues silently:

Dómine Jesu Christe, qui dixísti Apóstolis tuis: Pacem relínquo vobis,
pacem meam do vobis: ne respícias peccáta mea, sed fidem Ecclésiæ tuæ;
eámque secúndum voluntátem tuam pacificáre et coadunáre dignéris: Qui
vivis et regnas Deus per ómnia sæcula sæculórum. Amen.
O Lord, Jesus Christ, Who didst say to Thine Apostles: Peace I leave
you, My peace I give to you: look not upon my sins, but upon the faith
of Thy Church; and deign to give her that peace and unity which is
agreeable to Thy will: God Who livest and reignest world without end.
Amen.

Prayer for Holiness

Dómine Jesu Christe, Fili Dei vivi, qui ex voluntáte Patris, cooperánte
Spíritu Sancto, per mortem tuam mundum vivificásti: líbera me per hoc
sacrosánctum Corpus et Sánguinem tuum ab ómnibus iniquitátibus meis, et
univérsis malis: et fac me tuis semper inhærére mandátis, et a te
numquam separári permíttas: Qui cum eódem Deo Patre, et Spíritu Sancto
vivis et regnas Deus in sæcula sæculórum. Amen.
O Lord Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, Who, by the will of the
Father and the co-operation of the Holy Ghost, hast by Thy death given
life to the world: deliver me by this, Thy most sacred Body and Blood,
from all my iniquities and from every evil; make me cling always to Thy
commandments, and permit me never to be separated from Thee. Who with
the same God, the Father and the Holy Ghost, livest and reignest God,
world without end. Amen.

Prayer for Grace

Percéptio Córporis tui, Dómine Jesu Christe, quod ego indígnus súmere
præsúmo, non mihi provéniat in judícium et condemnatiónem: sed pro tua
pietáte prosit mihi ad tutaméntum mentis et córporis, et ad medélam
percipiéndam: Qui vivis et regnas cum Deo Patre in unitáte Spíritus
Sancti Deus, per ómnia sæcula sæculórum. Amen. Let not the partaking of
Thy Body, O Lord Jesus Christ, which I, though unworthy, presume to
receive, turn to my judgment and condemnation; but through Thy mercy
may it be unto me a safeguard and a healing remedy both of soul and
body. Who livest and reignest with God the Father, in the unity of the
Holy Ghost, God, world without end. Amen.

Communion of the Priest

He genuflects and taking the Host says:

Panem cæléstem accípiam, et nomen Dómini invocábo.

I will take the Bread of Heaven, and will call upon the name of the
Lord.

Striking his breast he says the following three times with the first
words audible:

The bells are rung three times.

Dómine, non sum dignus, ut intres sub tectum meum: sed tantum dic
verbo, et sanábitur ánima mea.

Lord, I am not worthy that Thou shouldst enter under my roof; but only
say the word, and my soul shall be healed.

He makes the Sign of the Cross with the Host over the paten, saying
silently:

Corpus Dómini nostri Jesu Christi custódiat ánimam meam in vitam
ætérnam. Amen.

May the Body of Our Lord Jesus Christ preserve my soul unto life
everlasting. Amen.

He consumes the Host, uncovers the chalice, genuflects and continues
silently
:

Quid retríbuam Dómino pro ómnibus quæ retríbuit mihi? Cálicem salutáris
accípiam, et nomen Dómini invocábo. Laudans invocábo Dóminum, et ab
inimícis meis salvus ero.

What return shall I make to the Lord for all the things that He hath
given unto me? I will take the chalice of salvation, and call upon the
Name of the Lord. I will call upon the Lord and give praise: and I
shall be saved from mine enemies.

He makes the Sign of the Cross with the chalice and says:

Sanguis Dómini nostri Jesu Christi custódiat ánimam meam in vitam
ætérnam. Amen.

May the Blood of Our Lord Jesus Christ preserve my soul unto life
everlasting. Amen.

He drinks the Precious Blood.

The server says the Confiteor and then the priest turns to the people
and says:

P. Misereátur vestri omnípotens Deus, et dimíssis peccátis vestris,
perdúcat vos ad vitam ætérnam.

P. May Almighty God have mercy on you, forgive you your sins, and bring
you to life everlasting.

S. Amen.

S. Amen.

P. Indulgéntiam, + absolutiónem et remissiónem peccatórum vestrórum
tríbuat vobis omnípotens, et miséricors Dóminus.

P. May the Almighty and Merciful Lord grant you pardon, + absolution,
and remission of your sins.

S. Amen.

S. Amen.

The priest genuflects, elevates the Host and turning towards the people
says:

P. Ecce Agnus Dei, ecce qui tollit peccáta mundi.

P. Behold the Lamb of God, behold Him Who taketh away the sins of the
world.

The bells are rung three times.

S. (repeated three times) Dómine, non sum dignus, ut intres sub tectum
meum: sed tantum dic verbo, et sanábitur ánima mea.

S. (repeated three times) Lord, I am not worthy that Thou shouldst
enter under my roof; but only say the word, and my soul shall be
healed.

The priest distributes Communion at the Altar rail saying to each
person:

Corpus Dómini nostri Jesu Christi custódiat ánimam tuam in vitam
æternam. Amen.
May the Body of Our Lord Jesus Christ preserve your soul unto life
everlasting. Amen.

Prayers After Communion

Ablutions

After Communion the priest puts any extra Hosts into the tabernacle and
taking the chalice, has a server pour in wine. He drinks it and says
quietly:

Quod ore sumpsimus, Domine, pura mente capiamus: et de múnere temporáli
fiat nobis remédium sempitérnum.

Grant, O Lord, that what we have taken with our mouth, we may receive
with a pure mind; and that from a temporal gift it may become for us an
everlasting remedy.

Wine and water are poured into the chalice over the priest's fingers.
As he dries them he says quietly:

Corpus tuum, Dómine, quod sumpsi, et Sanguis, quem potávi, adhæreat
viscéribus meis: et præsta; ut in me non remáneat scélerum mácula, quem
pura et sancta refecérunt sacraménta: Qui vivis et regnas in sæcula
sæculorum. Amen.

May Thy Body, O Lord, which I have received and Thy Blood which I have
drunk, cleave to my inmost parts, and grant that no stain of sin remain
in me; whom these pure and holy Sacraments have refreshed. Who livest
and reignest world without end. Amen.

He drinks the wine and water, cleans the chalice and veils it.

The Communion Antiphon proper

The priest goes to the right side of the Altar and reads the Communion
verse.

Stand at a high Mass.

Moving to the middle of the Altar the priest says:

P.
Dóminus vobíscum.

S. Et cum spíritu tuo.

P.
Orémus.

P.
The Lord be with you.

S. And with thy spirit

P.
Let us pray.

The Postcommunions proper

The priest returns to the right side of the Altar and reads the
Postcommunion proper.

S. Amen. S. Amen.

Returning to the middle of the Altar, he kisses it and turns to the
people, saying:

P.
Dóminus vobíscum.

S. Et cum spíritu tuo.

P. The Lord be with you.

S. And with thy spirit

The Dismissal

P. Ite, Missa est.

P. Go, the Mass is ended.

S. Deo grátias.

S. Thanks be to God.

The Last Blessing

Kneel

Bowing before the Altar the priest says silently:

Pláceat tibi, sancta Trínitas, obséquium servitútis meæ: et præsta; ut
sacrifícium, quod óculis tuæ majestátis in indígnus óbtuli, tibi sit
acceptábile, mihíque, et ómnibus, pro quibus illud óbtuli, sit, te
miseránte, propitiábile. Per Christum Dóminum nostrum. Amen.

May the tribute of my homage be pleasing to Thee, O most holy Trinity.
Grant that the Sacrifice which I, unworthy as I am, have offered in the
presence of Thy Majesty, may be acceptable to Thee. Through Thy mercy
may it bring forgiveness to me and to all for whom I have offered it.
Through Christ our Lord. Amen.

He kisses the Altar, turns to the people and blessing them says:

Benedícat vos omnípotens Deus, Pater, + et Fílius, et Spíritus Sanctus.

May Almighty God bless you: the Father, + the Son, and the Holy Ghost.

S. Amen.

S. Amen.

The Last Gospel

Stand

The priest goes to the right side of the Altar and says:

P. Dóminus vobíscum.

P. The Lord be with you.

S. Et cum spíritu tuo.

S. And with thy spirit.

P. + Inítium sancti Evangélii secúndum Joánnem.

P. + The beginning of the holy Gospel according to Saint John.

S. Glória tibi, Dómine.

S. Glory be to Thee, O Lord.

In princípio erat Verbum, et Verbum erat apud Deum, et Deus erat
Verbum. Hoc erat in princípio apud Deum. Omnia per ipsum facta sunt: et
sine ipso factum est nihil, quod factum est: in ipso vita erat, et viat
erat lux hóminum: et lux in ténebris lucet, et ténebræ eam non
comprehendérunt.

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word
was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made
by Him, and without Him was made nothing that was made. In Him was
life, and the life was the Light of men: and the Light shineth in
darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it.

Fuit homo missus a Deo, cui nomen erat Joánnes. Hic venit in
testimónium, ut testimónium perhibéret de lúmine, ut omnes créderent
per illum. Non erat ille lux, sed ut testimónium perhibéret de lúmine.

There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. This man came for a
witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through Him might
believe. He was not the Light, but was to bear witness of the Light.

Erat lux vera, quæ illúminat omnem hóminem veniéntem in hunc mundum. In
mundo erat, et mundus per ipsum factus est, et mundus eum non cognóvit.
In própria venit, et sui eum non recepérunt. Quotquot autem recepérunt
eum, dedit eis potestátem fílios Dei fíeri, his, qui credunt in nómine
ejus: qui non ex sanguínibus, neque ex voluntáte carnis, neque ex
voluntáte viri, sed ex Deo nati sunt. Genuflect ET VERBUM CARO FACTUM
EST, et habitávit in nobis: et vídimus glóriam ejus, glóriam quasi
Unigéniti a Patre, plenum grátiæ et veritátis.

That was the true Light, which enlighteneth every man that cometh into
this world. He was in the world, and the world was made by Him, and the
world knew Him not. He came unto His own, and His own received Him not.
But as many as received Him, to them He gave power to become the sons
of God; to them that believe in His name: who are born, not of blood,
nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
Genuflect AND THE WORD WAS MADE FLESH, and dwelt among us, and we saw
His glory, the glory as of the Only-begotten of the Father, full of
grace and truth.

S. Deo grátias.

S. Thanks be to God.
__________________________________________________________________

Home

Liturgy Archive

Liturgical Year

Daily Devotionals

Prayers

Bibles & Reference

The
Saints

Other Reading


shopify site analytics

References

1. http://www.liturgies.net/index.htm
2. http://www.liturgies.net/Liturgies/LiturgyArchive.htm
3. http://www.liturgies.net/LiturgicalYear.htm
4. http://www.liturgies.net/DailyDevotional/DailyDevotional.htm
5. http://www.liturgies.net/Prayers/Prayers.htm
6. http://www.liturgies.net/Bibles/BiblesReference.htm
7. http://www.liturgies.net/saints/saints.htm
8. http://www.liturgies.net/OtherReading/OtherReading.htm
9. http://statcounter.com/shopify/
