MESSAGE OF THE HOLY FATHER
BENEDICT XVI
FOR THE 43rd WORLD COMMUNICATIONS DAY

"New Technologies, New Relationships.
Promoting a Culture of Respect, Dialogue and Friendship."

[Sunday, 24 May 2009 ]

Dear Brothers and Sisters!

In anticipation of the forthcoming World Communications Day, I would
like to address to you some reflections on the theme chosen for this
year - New Technologies, New Relationships: Promoting a culture of
Respect, Dialogue and Friendship. The new digital technologies are,
indeed, bringing about fundamental shifts in patterns of communication
and human relationships. These changes are particularly evident among
those young people who have grown up with the new technologies and are
at home in a digital world that often seems quite foreign to those of
us who, as adults, have had to learn to understand and appreciate the
opportunities it has to offer for communications. In this year's
message, I am conscious of those who constitute the so-called digital
generation and I would like to share with them, in particular, some
ideas concerning the extraordinary potential of the new technologies,
if they are used to promote human understanding and solidarity. These
technologies are truly a gift to humanity and we must endeavour to
ensure that the benefits they offer are put at the service of all human
individuals and communities, especially those who are most
disadvantaged and vulnerable.

The accessibility of mobile telephones and computers, combined with the
global reach and penetration of the internet, has opened up a range of
means of communication that permit the almost instantaneous
communication of words and images across enormous distances and to some
of the most isolated corners of the world; something that would have
been unthinkable for previous generations. Young people, in particular,
have grasped the enormous capacity of the new media to foster
connectedness, communication and understanding between individuals and
communities, and they are turning to them as means of communicating
with existing friends, of meeting new friends, of forming communities
and networks, of seeking information and news, and of sharing their
ideas and opinions. Many benefits flow from this new culture of
communication: families are able to maintain contact across great
distances; students and researchers have more immediate and easier
access to documents, sources and scientific discoveries, hence they can
work collaboratively from different locations; moreover, the
interactive nature of many of the new media facilitates more dynamic
forms of learning and communication, thereby contributing to social
progress.

While the speed with which the new technologies have evolved in terms
of their efficiency and reliability is rightly a source of wonder,
their popularity with users should not surprise us, as they respond to
a fundamental desire of people to communicate and to relate to each
other. This desire for communication and friendship is rooted in our
very nature as human beings and cannot be adequately understood as a
response to technical innovations. In the light of the biblical
message, it should be seen primarily as a reflection of our
participation in the communicative and unifying Love of God, who
desires to make of all humanity one family. When we find ourselves
drawn towards other people, when we want to know more about them and
make ourselves known to them, we are responding to God's call - a call
that is imprinted in our nature as beings created in the image and
likeness of God, the God of communication and communion.

The desire for connectedness and the instinct for communication that
are so obvious in contemporary culture are best understood as modern
manifestations of the basic and enduring propensity of humans to reach
beyond themselves and to seek communion with others. In reality, when
we open ourselves to others, we are fulfilling our deepest need and
becoming more fully human. Loving is, in fact, what we are designed for
by our Creator. Naturally, I am not talking about fleeting, shallow
relationships, I am talking about the real love that is at the very
heart of Jesus' moral teaching: "You must love the Lord your God with
all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all
your strength" and "You must love your neighbour as yourself" (cf. Mk
12:30-31). In this light, reflecting on the significance of the new
technologies, it is important to focus not just on their undoubted
capacity to foster contact between people, but on the quality of the
content that is put into circulation using these means. I would
encourage all people of good will who are active in the emerging
environment of digital communication to commit themselves to promoting
a culture of respect, dialogue and friendship.

Those who are active in the production and dissemination of new media
content, therefore, should strive to respect the dignity and worth of
the human person. If the new technologies are to serve the good of
individuals and of society, all users will avoid the sharing of words
and images that are degrading of human beings, that promote hatred and
intolerance, that debase the goodness and intimacy of human sexuality
or that exploit the weak and vulnerable.

The new technologies have also opened the way for dialogue between
people from different countries, cultures and religions. The new
digital arena, the so-called cyberspace, allows them to encounter and
to know each other's traditions and values. Such encounters, if they
are to be fruitful, require honest and appropriate forms of expression
together with attentive and respectful listening. The dialogue must be
rooted in a genuine and mutual searching for truth if it is to realize
its potential to promote growth in understanding and tolerance. Life is
not just a succession of events or experiences: it is a search for the
true, the good and the beautiful. It is to this end that we make our
choices; it is for this that we exercise our freedom; it is in this -
in truth, in goodness, and in beauty - that we find happiness and joy.
We must not allow ourselves to be deceived by those who see us merely
as consumers in a market of undifferentiated possibilities, where
choice itself becomes the good, novelty usurps beauty, and subjective
experience displaces truth.

The concept of friendship has enjoyed a renewed prominence in the
vocabulary of the new digital social networks that have emerged in the
last few years. The concept is one of the noblest achievements of human
culture. It is in and through our friendships that we grow and develop
as humans. For this reason, true friendship has always been seen as one
of the greatest goods any human person can experience. We should be
careful, therefore, never to trivialize the concept or the experience
of friendship. It would be sad if our desire to sustain and develop
on-line friendships were to be at the cost of our availability to
engage with our families, our neighbours and those we meet in the daily
reality of our places of work, education and recreation. If the desire
for virtual connectedness becomes obsessive, it may in fact function to
isolate individuals from real social interaction while also disrupting
the patterns of rest, silence and reflection that are necessary for
healthy human development.

Friendship is a great human good, but it would be emptied of its
ultimate value if it were to be understood as an end in itself. Friends
should support and encourage each other in developing their gifts and
talents and in putting them at the service of the human community. In
this context, it is gratifying to note the emergence of new digital
networks that seek to promote human solidarity, peace and justice,
human rights and respect for human life and the good of creation. These
networks can facilitate forms of co-operation between people from
different geographical and cultural contexts that enable them to deepen
their common humanity and their sense of shared responsibility for the
good of all. We must, therefore, strive to ensure that the digital
world, where such networks can be established, is a world that is truly
open to all. It would be a tragedy for the future of humanity if the
new instruments of communication, which permit the sharing of knowledge
and information in a more rapid and effective manner, were not made
accessible to those who are already economically and socially
marginalized, or if it should contribute only to increasing the gap
separating the poor from the new networks that are developing at the
service of human socialization and information.

I would like to conclude this message by addressing myself, in
particular, to young Catholic believers: to encourage them to bring the
witness of their faith to the digital world. Dear Brothers and Sisters,
I ask you to introduce into the culture of this new environment of
communications and information technology the values on which you have
built your lives. In the early life of the Church, the great Apostles
and their disciples brought the Good News of Jesus to the Greek and
Roman world. Just as, at that time, a fruitful evangelization required
that careful attention be given to understanding the culture and
customs of those pagan peoples so that the truth of the gospel would
touch their hearts and minds, so also today, the proclamation of Christ
in the world of new technologies requires a profound knowledge of this
world if the technologies are to serve our mission adequately. It
falls, in particular, to young people, who have an almost spontaneous
affinity for the new means of communication, to take on the
responsibility for the evangelization of this "digital continent". Be
sure to announce the Gospel to your contemporaries with enthusiasm. You
know their fears and their hopes, their aspirations and their
disappointments: the greatest gift you can give to them is to share
with them the "Good News" of a God who became man, who suffered, died
and rose again to save all people. Human hearts are yearning for a
world where love endures, where gifts are shared, where unity is built,
where freedom finds meaning in truth, and where identity is found in
respectful communion. Our faith can respond to these expectations: may
you become its heralds! The Pope accompanies you with his prayers and
his blessing.

From the Vatican, 24 January 2009, Feast of Saint Francis de Sales.

BENEDICTUS XVI

© Copyright 2009 - Libreria Editrice Vaticana
