Numbers.
Chapter 28.
And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying: 
Command the children of Israel, and say unto them: My food which is presented unto Me for offerings made by fire, of a sweet savour unto Me, shall ye observe to offer unto Me in its due season. 
And thou shalt say unto them: This is the offering made by fire which ye shall bring unto the LORD: he-lambs of the first year without blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt-offering. 
The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at dusk; 
and the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil. 
It is a continual burnt-offering, which was offered in mount Sinai, for a sweet savour, an offering made by fire unto the LORD. 
And the drink-offering thereof shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb; in the holy place shalt thou pour out a drink-offering of strong drink unto the LORD. 
And the other lamb shalt thou present at dusk; as the meal-offering of the morning, and as the drink-offering thereof, thou shalt present it, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD. 
And on the sabbath day two he-lambs of the first year without blemish, and two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, and the drink-offering thereof. 
This is the burnt-offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof. 
And in your new moons ye shall present a burnt-offering unto the LORD: two young bullocks, and one ram, seven he-lambs of the first year without blemish; 
and three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for each bullock; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for the one ram; 
and a several tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal-offering unto every lamb; for a burnt-offering of a sweet savour, an offering made by fire unto the LORD. 
And their drink-offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bullock, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin for a lamb. This is the burnt-offering of every new moon throughout the months of the year. 
And one he-goat for a sin-offering unto the LORD; it shall be offered beside the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof. 
And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is the LORD'S passover. 
And on the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast; seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten. 
In the first day shall be a holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of servile work; 
but ye shall present an offering made by fire, a burnt-offering unto the LORD: two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven he-lambs of the first year; they shall be unto you without blemish; 
and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil; three tenth parts shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth parts for the ram; 
a several tenth part shalt thou offer for every lamb of the seven lambs; 
and one he-goat for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you. 
Ye shall offer these beside the burnt-offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt-offering. 
After this manner ye shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD; it shall be offered beside the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof. 
And on the seventh day ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of servile work. 
Also in the day of the first-fruits, when ye bring a new meal-offering unto the LORD in your feast of weeks, ye shall have a holy convocation: ye shall do no manner of servile work; 
but ye shall present a burnt-offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD: two young bullocks, one ram, seven he-lambs of the first year; 
and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for each bullock, two tenth parts for the one ram, 
a several tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs; 
one he-goat, to make atonement for you. 
Beside the continual burnt-offering, and the meal-offering thereof, ye shall offer them — they shall be unto you without blemish—and their drink-offerings. 
