Psalms.
Chapter 118.
'O give thanks unto the LORD, for He is good, for His mercy endureth for ever.' 
So let Israel now say, for His mercy endureth for ever, 
So let the house of Aaron now say, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
So let them now that fear the LORD say, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
Out of my straits I called upon the LORD; He answered me with great enlargement. 
The LORD is for me; I will not fear; what can man do unto me? 
The LORD is for me as my helper; and I shall gaze upon them that hate me. 
It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in man. 
It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in princes. 
All nations compass me about; verily, in the name of the LORD I will cut them off. 
They compass me about, yea, they compass me about; verily, in the name of the LORD I will cut them off. 
They compass me about like bees; they are quenched as the fire of thorns; verily, in the name of the LORD I will cut them off. 
Thou didst thrust sore at me that I might fall; but the LORD helped me. 
The LORD is my strength and song; and He is become my salvation. 
The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous; the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly. 
The right hand of the LORD is exalted; the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly. 
I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the LORD. 
The LORD hath chastened me sore; but He hath not given me over unto death. 
Open to me the gates of righteousness; I will enter into them, I will give thanks unto the LORD. 
This is the gate of the LORD; the righteous shall enter into it. 
I will give thanks unto Thee, for Thou hast answered me, and art become my salvation. 
The stone which the builders rejected is become the chief corner-stone. 
This is the LORD'S doing; it is marvellous in our eyes. 
This is the day which the LORD hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it. 
We beseech Thee, O LORD, save now! We beseech Thee, O LORD, make us now to prosper! 
Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the LORD; we bless you out of the house of the LORD. 
The LORD is God, and hath given us light; order the festival procession with boughs, even unto the horns of the altar. 
Thou art my God, and I will give thanks unto Thee; Thou art my God, I will exalt Thee. 
O give thanks unto the LORD, for He is good, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
