Psalms.
Chapter 45.
(45-1) For the Leader; upon Shoshannim; a Psalm of the sons of Korah. Maschil. A Song of loves. (45-2) My heart overfloweth with a goodly matter; I say: 'My work is concerning a king'; my tongue is the pen of a ready writer. 
(45-3) Thou art fairer than the children of men; grace is poured upon thy lips; therefore God hath blessed thee for ever. 
(45-4) Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O mighty one, thy glory and thy majesty. 
(45-5) And in thy majesty prosper, ride on, in behalf of truth and meekness and righteousness; and let thy right hand teach thee tremendous things. 
(45-6) Thine arrows are sharp — the peoples fall under thee — they sink into the heart of the king's enemies. 
(45-7) Thy throne given of God is for ever and ever; a sceptre of equity is the sceptre of thy kingdom. 
(45-8) Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated wickedness; therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. 
(45-9) Myrrh, and aloes, and cassia are all thy garments; out of ivory palaces stringed instruments have made thee glad. 
(45-10) Kings' daughters are among thy favourites; at thy right hand doth stand the queen in gold of Ophir. 
(45-11) 'Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget also thine own people, and thy father's house; 
(45-12) So shall the king desire thy beauty; for he is thy lord; and do homage unto him. 
(45-13) And, O daughter of Tyre, the richest of the people shall entreat thy favour with a gift.' 
(45-14) All glorious is the king's daughter within the palace; her raiment is of chequer work inwrought with gold. 
(45-15) She shall be led unto the king on richly woven stuff; the virgins her companions in her train being brought unto thee. 
(45-16) They shall be led with gladness and rejoicing; they shall enter into the king's palace. 
(45-17) Instead of thy fathers shall be thy sons, whom thou shalt make princes in all the land. 
(45-18) I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations; therefore shall the peoples praise thee for ever and ever. 
